Will St Helens remain on top of the Super League? St Helens ended their five-year drought without the Super League crown, easing past the Salford Red Devils in the Grand Final by a 23-6 scoreline. The Saints were dominant throughout the campaign and they epitomised their term by storming their way to the championship. However, the triumph was the end of Justin Holbrook’s time with the club. The Aussie had great success in his two-and-a-half years on Merseyside, reversing the fortunes of the team from mid-table battlers to champions at the end of his tenure. Kristian Woolf now takes over head coaching duties with the pressure of having to maintain the high standards set by his predecessor. Woolf arrives with a fine reputation, having guided Tonga to the semi-finals of the 2017 World Cup, defeating New Zealand and England in the process. St Helens are still the leading contenders in the rugby league odds to win a second title on the bounce, although it will be a challenge now they are the team to beat. The last side to win successive titles was Leeds Rhinos in 2012, and that is the task at hand for Woolf to keep the Saints at the top of the pile, although he still has an incredibly strong squad of players at his disposal. The club will be returning almost all of the squad that won the title last season. Outside of Holbrook there have been no major departures from the roster that has been outstanding over the last two seasons. The only question remaining will be whether they are able to maintain their imperious levels of play under a new head coach. Under Holbrook they were relentless in 2019, losing only three of their matches in their run to their ultimate triumph. Surprisingly two of those defeats came at the hands of the London Broncos, who were relegated to the Championship. Despite those setbacks, the Saints were a model of consistency, producing elite performances on a weekly basis against the best sides in the league. No display perhaps signalled their dominance more than their victory over Wigan Warriors in the playoff semi-finals, hammering their rivals 40-10 at Totally Wicked Stadium. It banished the demons of their defeat at the same stage in the previous campaign, establishing the mentality that helped them brush aside Salford in the Grand Final. Not only did St Helens produce quality rugby under Holbrook in 2019, they were also a mentally tough unit that was ready to grind out results. Woolf has the talent at his hands to blow away average teams and the elite sides of league. With Tommy Makinson, Lachlan Coote, Theo Fages, Jonny Lomax, Regan Grace and Kevin Naiqama, there’s too much quality for them to fail. However, the questions will be whether they are able to close out tight games and remain a cohesive unit. That’s the difference between great teams and ones that fall short. Holbrook formed an imperious side that conquered the Super League with their all-round play and it will not be an easy task to replace that level of dominance.+++1
Five Things We’ve Learned From The Opening Weeks Of The Super League Shaun Wane We are now a few weeks into the new Super League season and the table is already starting to take on a familiar look. Heavyweights Warrington, Castleford and St Helens have stormed to the top of the standings after beginning the campaign in immaculate fashion. Teams tipped to struggle are already bracing themselves for a long battle to avoid relegation, while there has been a bountiful supply of drama, intrigue and controversy. Here are the top five things we have learned so far: Shaun Wane’s absence is already being felt Wigan’s legendary head coach bowed out in style last year as his team put Warrington to the sword in the Grand Final. It marked the culmination of a 40-year career with the club for a local lad who started as a volunteer and then served as prop, scout, academy manager and head coach. He was always going to be a huge loss after he left for a high performance coaching role with Scottish Rugby, and Wigan’s early season form has suggested that the transition into a brave new era will not be plain sailing. There is no shame in losing to Syndey Roosters or St Helens, but they have conceded soft tries and there is plenty of work for Adrian Lam to do. They have also been deducted two points due to a salary cap breach in 2017, but there is plenty of time for them to bounce back. Lam insists this is not a team in transition, and he is making the right noises about Wigan defending their crown, but it remains to be seen how these players will react to his demands for a more flamboyant style of rugby. Warrington and St Helens looking strong Warrington’s wait to be crowned champions now stretches back 64 years and fans will probably be glad to see the back of Wane, who vanquished them in the 2013 and 2016 Grand Finals too. Yet they have made a strong start to the new campaign and a look at the sports spread betting at Sporting Index shows you that they are the favourites to finally end their trophy drought this year. Comprehensive victories over Leeds and Hull KR have seen them surge to the top of the table, and those long-suffering fans will be delighted by the impact that Man of Steel favourite Blake Austin has made. He inspired them to a thumping victory against the new look Rhinos, sparking fresh optimism that this might finally be Warrington’s year. Yet Saints are also looking extremely menacing, having swept aside the defending champions in contemptuous fashion in their opener and then getting the better of Wakefield. If Wigan cannot rediscover their best form, it could develop into a fascinating tussle between Warrington and St Helens to seize glory this season. Expectations tempered at London Broncos The Broncos are back in the Super League after a five-year absence and they marked their return with a thrilling 42-24 victory over Wakefield at the Trailfinders Sports Ground. Rhys Williams and Eddie Battye both scored two tries and generated a party atmosphere inside the stadium. Those proclaiming that the Broncos would finish bottom of the table were urged to reconsider, and fans dared to dream of a decent season. However, those aspirations have been somewhat dashed by the team’s subsequent form, as they lost 24-0 to Salford and 22-12 to Hull KR. They are still the clear favourites to finish bottom, but they look as though they will battle valiantly throughout the campaign. New rules have changed the look of the games All eyes have been on the new rules in the early weeks of the season after Super League chief executive promised they would make the competition faster, more intense and more dramatic. The shot clock is a welcome addition as it has improved the pace of games, and reducing the number of permitted interchanges from 10 to eight should result in more late drama as legs grow weary. We are yet to see the controversial golden point extra-time, but that should provide some exciting moments further down the line too, and the rule changes appear to be largely positive thus far. Clubs might start looking at Barba Ben Barba has started a new job driving trucks in Mackay after being sacked by North Queensland Cowboys before he even had the chance to make his debut. Footage has emerged of the former Dally M and Man of Steel winner allegedly assaulting his girlfriend and he has been handed a lifetime ban from the NRL. Nobody condones such actions, but there is no real precedent in Super League for excluding players on those grounds. Former England international John Wilkin, who played with Barba last year, said he expects the RFL to allow him back into Super League, where he was the top try scorer last year. Zak Hardaker, Scott Moore and Gareth Hock are still playing, despite their transgressions, and it might not be long before Barba is given another chance in England. There are many clubs that would love to have someone of his talent, provided they can stomach his alleged actions off the pitch.+++1
Bennett needs to be more clinical with his England team selection The 2017 Rugby League World Cup is in full swing, with plenty of attention on England, who are looking to end Australia and New Zealand’s domination of the competition and reach their first final since 1995. As usual, the trio are expected to be three of the four teams making it to the semi-finals, but Wayne Bennett is looking to end England’s miserable run of semi-final disappointments by masterminding a rare run to the final. Early stages of the tournament have been promising for England, but Bennett has still received plenty of criticism for his squad selection prior to the tournament and then the selection of his starting XIII during the early stage of the competition. England came unstuck against Australia in the opening game of the tournament, with Mal Meninga’s side running out 18-4 winners against the Wall of White. The Kangaroos remain firm favourites to win the competition after their start, with the Rugby League betting markets offering odds of 2/11 for them to defend the trophy they comprehensively won in 2013. One moment stood out in that clash in late October, as England pressed for a way back into the contest, with John Bateman, selected as a left centre by Bennett, having the opportunity to put Ryan Hall into a try-scoring position. The Wigan Warriors back row failed to seriously commit the Australian defence and Hall was bundled into touch, with England bombing their only real opportunity to get back into the contest before a late Australian flourish secured victory. Australia v England in 100 seconds A steady start – something to build on pic.twitter.com/RRQEl3s1da — England Rugby League (@England_RL) October 28, 2017 https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js The tournament’s opening fixture suggested there wouldn’t be much between England and Australia, but if they meet later on in the competition, England will have to be far more clinical. Bateman’s selection at left centre for England’s opening two fixtures was widely criticised, particularly with Mark Percival, St Helens’ centre, in the England squad having enjoyed a magnificent 2017 Super League season that saw him make the Dream Team. That takes us back to looking at Bennett’s squad selection, and why he limited his options so much across the backline, by padding his squad with a number of forward options. England have had a long association with players playing out of position in the World Cup, which has never previously worked, leading to further questions on Bennett – such as why the likes of Bateman, one of Super League’s best second-rowers, is finding himself in such a crucial attacking position. Happy to have made the super league dream team ☺️ pic.twitter.com/mNXNP8qWvc — Mark Percival22 (@MarkPercival22) September 25, 2017 https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js Square pegs in round holes is a common phrase associated with English rugby league at international level, and as the tournament progresses, it would be nice to see Percival handed an opportunity, after travelling to Australia as the only recognised left centre. The St Helens man has speed to burn, and although he might not make the defensive impact Bateman does, his attacking prowess would frighten the world’s best backlines. Of course, even with Bateman at centre, England have a chance of toppling Australia and New Zealand, but realistically, the left edge looks far less threatening than the right at this current time. Percival’s time will come at international level, but many at home are hoping to see that opportunity later in the 2017 World Cup, as Bennett looks to defy his critics and lead England to a first final in over two decades.+++1
Betts Leaves Whilst Cummins Takes Over Widnes Vikings have parted company with long standing head coach Denis Betts who has been with the club for eight years. The Vikings have decided that Francis Cummins will take interim charge until a permanent replacment can be found. On the departure of Betts, James Rule, CEO of Widnes Vikings, said: “Denis can be proud of his contribution to this club over the past eight years. Whilst it is regrettable to lose someone of his experience and commitment, we believe that it is now the right time for a change in leadership. Denis leaves with the absolute best wishes of everyone at the club for the future. “Naturally, it will take time to identify and recruit a long-term successor for the role. However, we are grateful that Francis Cummins will be stepping up as our Head Coach, on an interim basis. Francis has proven himself to be a talented, dedicated and knowledgeable coach, and has earned the respect of staff and teammates from across the club for his contribution since joining Widnes Vikings in September. His appointment brings stability to the team at an important stage of the season and allows us to plan for 2019, whilst offering him the chance to make his own mark on the team. We are thankful to our Stronghold Members, supporters and partners for their support at this time.” Denis Betts commented on leaving the club: “I have been grateful to have had the opportunity to lead Widnes Vikings, as Head Coach, for eight years. It is with sadness that I leave the club, but I feel proud of what has been achieved during my tenure, and of the contributions of our players and back-office staff. “I would like to thank everyone who I have worked alongside during my tenure at the club, and all who have supported the Vikings both on and off the field. The club has many reasons to be positive for the future, not least the ongoing emergence of its young talent, and I give my best wishes to those who continue to lead the team in the future.  I hope that the club continues to progress in the seasons ahead. “I am looking forward to my next chapter in the game and I am grateful for the considerable experience that I have gained with Widnes Vikings.” On becoming interim head coach Francis Cummins, added: “It is never easy to take on a role in circumstances like these, but I am ready to step up and support the team at this time. On behalf of myself, and all of the coaching, playing and back-office staff, I would like to thank Denis and wish him every success in the future. “In stepping up as Interim Head Coach, I will be looking to support our players to fulfil their potential, to express themselves on the field, and to grow in confidence. The backing of our Members and supporters is absolutely vital to achieving this. We have a number of tough away fixtures coming up, before our next home game in July, so this collective unity and support will be key. I am hoping that everyone can rally around the team, to support them to have a strong finish to the season.”+++1
Your Chance to Watch Champion Boxer Amir Khan vs Vargas Courtesy of CPIC Amir Khan is a professional boxer who needs no introduction for boxing fans. He holds an awesome record of 32 wins and four losses in his professional career so far. This 2-time world champion will be seen in action in his next fight when he takes on Samuel Vargas at Arena Birmingham on 8th September 2018. CPIC is putting its support behind Khan by being one of his prestigious sponsors against Vargas. In conjunction, CPIC has organized an exciting promotion during which investors can obtain tickets to the boxing match of the year! The first 10 people investing in plots in Gwadar from today have a chance to get hold of two tickets to watch the fight held in Birmingham to lend their support to Amir Khan! Amir Khan is a professional boxer from England Amir has a huge following all over the world. He was an amateur boxer till Athens Olympics 2004 where he won a silver medal for England. In the final, he lost to Mario Kindelan but settled the score with him in his next fight with him. After this fight, Amir turned professional boxer. Since then he has been world champion twice and has graduated from lightweight to welterweight and now fights in the middleweight category. CPIC is behind real estate development in Gwadar CPIC, an award-winning real estate developer playing a big role in the development of Gwadar Port and Gwadar mega oil city, is organizing a property show in Birmingham on the same day when Amir Khan plays his boxing match against Samuel Vargas. China is ploughing in massive funds into Gwadar as part of its ambitious China Pakistan Economic Corridor. According to experts, Gwadar has the potential to become a major port city of the world by 2023. CPIC is heavily involved in Gwadar by undertaking huge projects such as Zero Point Gwadar, The Heartland, Casa Mediterraneo, and Gwadar Downtown. Making safe communities with world class amenities CPIC is proud to be a trusted developer and real estate company based in UK with offices in New York and Karachi. It is a real estate company based in UK with offices in New York and Karachi. CPIC has completed projects worth more than $882 billion till date. It has carved a niche for itself as a reliable and trustworthy real estate developer with world class construction capabilities. It aims to offer safe, neat and green communities to investors in Gwadar port city that is slated to become the next Dubai of the world. The company is building world class communities in Gwadar that promise not just a comfortable and luxurious lifestyle but also full of business opportunities. Special Amir Khan promotion from CPIC The first 10 investors buying plots will have a chance of getting 2 tickets each for free to the epic boxing match between Amir Khan and Samuel Vargas. With both events being held in Birmingham on the same day (8th September 2018) however, the Gwadar Property Show is held over the entire weekend in Birmingham. Tickets are very limited and given away on a first-come-first served basis. CPIC’s Gwadar Property Show As mentioned, over the same weekend as the epic fight, CPIC is hosting their Gwadar Property show. As an investor, you can learn important details about various projects being undertaken by CPIC at the show.  You will know why Gwadar port city is being projected to become the next Dubai. Already prices of properties in Gwadar have increased by more than 500%. As an investor, you can expect attractive returns on investment by buying plots of land in real estate projects being completed by CPIC.+++1
Eddie Jones: ‘England door still open for Cipriani’ Eddie Jones has refused to fully close the door on Danny Cipriani’s England career, after the fly-half found himself with off the field issues once again. Cipriani made his first start for England in a decade in South Africa this summer, but was fined £2,000 after admitting charges of common assault and resisting arrest during his club Gloucester’s pre-season tour of Jersey. He then found himself sanctioned by the Rugby Football Union. England head coach Jones has warned after recalling him to the international stage that “there’s always a plane back from Johannesburg”, but the half-back’s latest off-field problems does not appear to have ended his chances in the long-term. Jones said: “We never close the door on anyone. Everyone makes mistakes. He was very contrite afterwards, realised he’s done the wrong thing and we move on from that now. “I think it’s been dealt with. He was punished by his club, punished by whatever happened with the RFU. He’s now back playing and we’ll look at him in terms of how well he plays. “In South Africa, he worked well and again at the August camp, he worked well and if he gets an opportunity at the September camp, he’ll have another opportunity to work well.”+++1
The long, slow vindication of the ABA 8 “Loose Balls”, Terry Plato’s history of the American Basketball Association, documents a league whose ideas are finally coming into their own. By Paul Flannery  Jan 17, 2020, 8:00am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options The American Basketball Association waged a war against the NBA throughout its nine-year history. From the beginning, it was an unfair fight. The NBA had better players, better arenas, and most importantly, a network television contract that gave it more visibility and way better funding. But the ABA had one thing going for it. The league simply refused to play by the NBA’s rules. It cared little for the sanctity of contracts and broke the unwritten prohibition against signing college underclassmen. The ABA opened its doors to players who had been blackballed from the NBA like Connie Hawkins, Doug Moe, and Roger Brown, and found a home for players deemed too small or just plain too weird. You can’t understand the history of pro basketball without the ABA, and you can’t be any kind of a basketball person if you don’t know Willie Wise and Bob Netolicky. The ABA survived in spite of itself, largely because it had a keener eye for talent. That manifested itself in players like Julius Erving, George Gervin, and Mel Daniels who went on to become Hall of Famers, along with scores of players like Mack Calvin, Billy Keller, and Steve Jones who thrived in its open-ended game. But the ABA never intended to defeat the NBA. Its goal all along was to force a merger. After nine years of players, coaches, and even refs jumping leagues, lawsuits and countersuits, the NBA finally absorbed four teams: Indiana, Denver, San Antonio, and New Jersey into the league in 1976. The war was over, even if the NBA could never bring itself to call the terms a merger. More like a conditional surrender. That bruising battle served as the backdrop for Loose Balls, Terry Pluto’s oral history of the ABA. Published in 1990 at the dawn of the NBA’s most prosperous era, it felt like a time capsule of a mythological era filled with sex, drugs, and all the craziness that the 70s had to offer. Reading it again now, I’m drawn to another conclusion. The ABA not only won, it’s been vindicated. As former Kentucky Colonels coach Hubie Brown put it, “We were ahead of the NBA in so many ways. The only thing they didn’t take was the red, white, and blue ball.” Lacking franchise-caliber big men, ABA coaches like Brown innovated with forwards playing center, guards playing forward. Those non-traditional lineups served as a precursor to the modern-day game where positions are fungible and skill beats size. Then and now, the 3-point shot is the great equalizer. The ABA prioritized the dunk to such a degree that it introduced the slam dunk contest, later adopted by the NBA and turned into the marquee event at All-Star Weekend. Desperate to get people to come to the arenas, ABA games became sideshows of giveaways and promotions. It’s impossible to walk into an arena today and not feel the ABA’s insistence on providing fans with something more than just the game. The ABA also gave us unfettered player movement and backroom deals. When in doubt, have a draft, and the ABA had a ton of “secret” drafts with far more intrigue than any lottery drawing could ever hope to have. By going after college underclassmen, the ABA exposed the sham of amateur athletics, even going so far as to sign the first player directly out of high school in Moses Malone. Only four ABA franchises survived, but the league afforded an opportunity for pro basketball to take root in non-traditional markets like Memphis, Utah, and New Orleans. In all, a dozen ABA cities eventually hosted NBA teams. Most of all, the ABA gave us style and it gave us stories. Pluto collected them all in Loose Balls, crafting the definitive document of a rebel league that has stood the test of time. One of my favorites concerns the sale of Gervin from Virginia to San Antonio. Even by ABA standards where teams were constantly in danger of going under, the Squires were notoriously short on cash. At one point the sheriff’s department was coming to repossess the team’s uniforms before a game because they owed $2,000 to the manufacturer. Spurs owner Angelo Drossos called up his Virgina counterpart Earl Foreman with an offer: Sell us Gervin for $225,000. There was a catch. The All-Star game was scheduled to be held in Norfolk in a few months and Foreman, having already sold Julius Erving, Rick Barry, and Swen Nater, didn’t want to surrender his last remaining star. Drossos suggested a “delayed-delivery deal.” Cash up front for Gervin’s services after the All-Star game. Eventually the press caught on and Foreman had second thoughts. The commissioner Mike Storen got involved and suggested Drossos could have his pick of any player on the Squires’ roster except for Gervin. Drossos said no way, he had the contract and he had Gervin already stashed in San Antonio after agreeing to indemnify Gervin and his agent. Storen then said he would forfeit every Spurs game until Gervin was back in Virginia. Drossos sent the league a telegram that read, “Fuck you. A stronger letter will follow.” The league sued, but it went to Federal Court in San Antonio where a judge who happened to be a season-ticket holder ruled in favor of Drossos and the Spurs. The Squires were out of business just before the merger with the NBA. Gervin, meanwhile, blossomed into the Ice Man in San Antonio, cementing a love affair between the city and the sport that exists to this day. Could you imagine any of that happening today? Take DeAndre Jordan being held hostage by the Clippers to prevent him from signing with the Mavericks and multiply it by David Stern’s Chris Paul trade-vetoing, “Basketball Reasons” and maybe it would rival the particulars of that insane story. There would be Woj Bombs left and right, NBA Twitter would implode, a hundred think pieces would angle for clicks. In the ABA, it was merely another hilarious sidenote. The thing about the ABA was, you really had to be there. It was barely on television and it wasn’t like there were highlight shows running down Memphis Tams scores. All that remained were the stories, and the oral history structure of Loose Balls offered Pluto the perfect vehicle. There’s no need for a narrative arc when a former coach casually recounts the time he offered a $500 bounty to any of his players who would take on legendary tough guy John Brisker. A bench player named Lenny Chappel said he’d do it and decked Brisker on the opening tip when no one was looking. Brisker, it’s been said, disappeared after running off to Uganda to become a mercenary for Idi Amin. Or the time Marvin Barnes missed a series of flights and wound up chartering a plane from LaGuardia. He arrived 10 minutes before the game wearing a wide-brimmed hat and a floor-length mink coat with his uniform underneath. After proclaiming, “Game Time is on time,” he went out and scored 43 points. During the game, the pilot showed up in the team huddle demanding to be paid. Barnes sent the trainer to the locker room to fetch his checkbook and cut the pilot a check during a timeout. (Accounts varied on how much it actually cost.) All of that would have been lost without Loose Balls. It’s served as the foundational source material for dozens of documentaries and features. Pluto, ever the gracious caretaker of the league’s history is prominent in many. Yet, Loose Balls is more than a historical document of a bygone era. It’s a blueprint for how pro basketball finally began to find its way as a major sports entity. It would take years to fully grasp the ABA’s importance, but it’s all right there every night on League Pass and in arenas across the country. The ABA won, all hail the ABA.+++1
How Derrick Rose fits the Lakers and 76ers in a potential trade The Lakers and 76ers are both reportedly showing interest in Derrick Rose. By Ricky O'Donnell  Jan 20, 2020, 7:39pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options New Orleans Pelicans v Detroit Pistons Photo by Brian Sevald/NBAE via Getty Images The Los Angles Lakers and Philadelphia 76ers are two teams gauging the trade market for Detroit Pistons point guard Derrick Rose, according to Chris Haynes of Yahoo! Sports. Rose signed a two-year, $15 million contract with the Pistons in the offseason, and has turned in his most productive season since injuries diminished his career following his MVP run in 2010-2011. Rose, now 31 years old, only plays 25.8 minutes per game for the Pistons, but has been a dynamic scorer and facilitator when he’s on the floor. He’s putting up 18.3 points and six assists per game, with per-100 possessions averages that rival his MVP numbers. Trading Rose for a long-term piece makes sense for the Pistons. Detroit is off to a 16-28 start that has featured a season-ending knee injury to Blake Griffin and rumors the team could trade long-time center Andre Drummond ahead of his impending free agency. While the Pistons remain only three games out of the final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference, it is about time for the franchise to commit to a full rebuild. Rose stood trial in a civil lawsuit in 2016 for rape allegations. He was found not liable. RELATED Derrick Rose exposes our toxic role in the sports redemption narrative This is how Rose would fit with the both the Lakers and 76ers in a trade. How Derrick Rose fits with the Lakers The Lakers are sitting atop the Western Conference behind the superstar play of LeBron James and Anthony Davis, but the team isn’t satisfied. The team has been involved in trade rumors throughout the season as it looks to upgrade its supporting cast. Rose would be an ideal fit for the minutes James rests, but it’s unclear how much he would help Los Angeles when its best players are on the floor. The Lakers have been looking for a guard who can run the offense and add supplemental scoring, two boxes Rose would check. Rose can effectively operate a pick-and-roll and is a skilled finisher around the rim. This season he’s making 68.3 percent of his field goals inside of three feet, per Basketball Reference, and has a 42.4 percent assist rate. Both numbers represent career-highs. Where Rose struggles is as an outside shooter and defender. Rose is shooting only 31.8 percent from three-point range this season. He’s also graded out poorly in individual defensive metrics like DBPM and 538’s RAPTOR. Rose would give the Lakers offense a kick in spurts, but it’s no lock he would be effective playing off the ball with James running show given his limitations as a shooter. Kyle Kuzma and salary filler would work out in a trade. If the Lakers don’t want to trade Kuzma, a young player like Talen Horton-Tucker, the team’s second round pick in the NBA draft, could also be the focal point of a deal. How Derrick Rose fits with the 76ers Philadelphia is currently No. 6 in the Eastern Conference, struggling to live up to preseason title aspirations in part because of a lack of depth in the backcourt. Rose would give the Sixers a speedy guard who can run pick-and-roll with either Joel Embiid or Ben Simmons, but his lack of shooting makes him a poor fit when both are on the floor. Philadelphia could easily upgrade over Raul Neto and Trey Burke with an in-season trade, two guards who have been forced into part-time roles off the bench this season. While both are quality outside shooters, Rose would give the Sixers a guard who can attack the basket on a spaced floor, which is a dimension the team currently doesn’t have. Rose’s ability to push the tempo could also help a team that currently ranks No. 20 overall in pace. If the Sixers are going to trade for a guard, it makes sense to target one who is a better outside shooter than Rose. His drives the basket won’t be as effective with Simmons and Embiid in the paint. The Sixers need to find someone who can complement their stars, not someone whose game clashes with them. Expect Rose to be involved in rumors until the deadline Rose is going to be one of the hottest names on the trade market until the deadline. Teams looking for a guard who can put pressure on the rim with drives to the paint won’t find a better available option. In the case of both the Sixers and Lakers, though, it’s worth noting just how much Rose’s role would have to change in crunch-time. Rose has played so well in Detroit in part because the team has given him the freedom to run pick-and-rolls and isolations. It’s unlikely he’s going to have the ball in his hands as much on a contender surrounded by better teammates. The Pistons will likely move Rose before the deadline. The Lakers feel like a better fit than the Sixers out of the teams mentioned in this rumor.+++1
Jaren Jackson Jr. is what the NBA unicorn was always supposed to be 10 In an NBA world where too many players get the unicorn moniker, the young Grizzlies big man actually embodies what the term once meant. By Mike Prada  Jan 15, 2020, 12:54pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options A collage of Jaren Jackson Jr. Jaren Jackson is the type of big man every team wants in the modern NBA. Four years ago, then-Thunder superstar Kevin Durant was asked about Kristaps Porzingis, a athletic, sweet shooting tall man that was capturing New York’s attention. As Durant laid out Porzingis’ long list of attributes, many of which were once the domain of smaller players, he suddenly found the perfect word to sum them all up. “That’s like a unicorn in this league,” he said. Just like that, a new NBA term was born. In the years since, the combination of skills Porzingis possessed have become ubiquitous, if not required to succeed at the highest levels. For big men, novelty has become necessity. If they all need to become more unicorn-like, then how can any really embody the term? What does it mean to be a unicorn in these times? The answer has come in a new class of bigs defined more by their versatility and tantalizing possibility than their status as top scoring options. They are unicorns, but really, they’re shapeshifters, much like Kirby in Super Smash Brothers. From Lamar Odom, to Al Horford, to Draymond Green, to Pascal Siakam, to Bam Adebayo, these NBA Kirbys have added something new and repurposed something old to further build on their ancestors. Now, the Kirby lineage of basketball unicorns is poised to add a new member to its group: Jaren Jackson Jr. The second-year big man is not the best player (Ja Morant), best prospect (Morant, Brandon Clarke, or maybe even DeAnthony Melton), loudest leader (probably Dillon Brooks, to be honest), most seasoned veteran (Andre Iguodala Jae Crowder), or most engaging personality (OK, maybe he is) on the delightful Memphis Grizzlies, somehow the West’s No. 8 seed despite possessing a roster of kids. If their rebuilding project goes as expected, he may never be any of those things. But at the ripe old age of 20, he’s already showing why he’s on track to be the all-important connective tissue that allows all of those other players to be themselves. Jackson is a basketball chameleon, and the rest of the Grizzlies’ young core have already become the beneficiaries of his many color changes. Jackson’s list of special skills runs deep, but his accurate three-point shooting at a heavy volume vaults to the top of the list. His unorthodox motion — take a drink every time an opposing announcer refers to it as a “shot put” — belies his remarkable accuracy. He’s currently approaching 42 percent from downtown on 6.5 three-point attempts per game. The only other bigs to approach that accuracy on that volume: Karl-Anthony Towns, Ryan Anderson, and Davis Bertans. These aren’t just your run-of-the-mill open pick-and-pop jumpers, either. He takes stationary threes. Pick-and-pop threes. Transition threes. Threes on the move. Step-back threes. Threes off screens. And threes like whatever this is. The diversity of his three-point shot profile would be staggering for a wing. For a big man? The only word to describe it is ... unicorn-ish. Jaren Jackson Jr’s 3PAs TYPE OF 3	ATTEMPTS	MAKES	PERCENTAGE	% of overall 3PAs 3rd man on a pick and roll	20	11	55	7.751937984 Ball screens, pindowns, dribble handoffs	38	20	52.63157895	14.72868217 End of clock heaves	18	3	16.66666667	6.976744186 Offensive rebounds	14	5	35.71428571	5.426356589 Pick and pop	60	25	41.66666667	23.25581395 Stationary (above the break)	19	6	31.57894737	7.364341085 Stationary (corner)	24	6	25	9.302325581 Stepbacks or ISOs	22	9	40.90909091	8.527131783 Transition	43	22	51.1627907	16.66666667 SB Nation tracked, watched, and categorized every Jaren Jackson Jr. three-pointer this season. Data as of Jan. 15 NBA.com/stats The fact that Jackson can take and make so many different kinds of threes enables the Grizzlies to deploy him in so many different spots on the court. He has no obvious sweet spot, which means there’s rarely a worry he’ll catch the ball somewhere he doesn’t belong. He can toggle between playmaker, primary scorer, screener, and floor spacer, depending on what the Grizzlies need at that particular moment. Better yet, he can do all four within the same play, which ensures Memphis’ sets always have secondary options. A pick-and-pop that the defense covers effectively can quickly swing into a dribble handoff, post-up, or second-side screening action, and it’s difficult for the defense to peg exactly where Jackson fits in to those sequences. In an instant, he’s flipped from the big man screener that gets a guard open into the primary option on a flare screen to get him a three. And if that shot isn’t there, he can quickly flow back into being a screener for a guard curling up from the corner. Or — and this is spicy — he can invert the traditional big/guard setup and act as the ball-handler immediately. Jackson’s perimeter shooting opens all of those options, but that only scratches the surface of his offensive versatility. He holds his screens and rolls hard to the rim in open space, much like a more traditional big would. Jackson was initially more comfortable diving to the basket when backup Tyus Jones was on the floor, since Jones would often look for him instead of driving himself. Of late, though, Jackson’s chemistry with Morant is growing. Just ask the Rockets. Memphis Grizzlies   @memgrizz per usual, them boys up to somethin 👀@JaMorant x @jarenjacksonjr #GrzNxtGen Embedded video 408 5:45 PM - Jan 14, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 105 people are talking about this Jackson’s also a nimble ball-handler for a man his size, especially going left. When he attacks closeouts, he dips his body low enough to the ground to angle off shot-blockers and retreating defenders alike. Considering how often he puts the ball on the floor in space, it’s amazing that he only turns it over on 10 percent of his possessions. For reference, only seven other players taller than 6’10 finish more than 20 percent of their team’s plays while turning it over less often. Jackson’s sudden low center of gravity allows him to absorb contact and sneak his shoulders through defenders to get to the rim. He’s more comfortable attacking left, but he’s beginning to come back to his right hand effectively when defenders overplay. This wrong-footed, gliding righty finish resembles the kind of move that makes Siakam such a difficult cover. Jackson’s ball-handling skill is increasingly becoming a boon for Clarke, who loves to slip screens and dunk on fools. Jackson’s shooting already opens the lane for Clarke’s dives to the basket, but now the two are even hooking up on pick-and-rolls like this. Defend Jackson too much like a guard, though, and he can punish smaller defenders in the post or stand along the baseline in what’s commonly known as the “dunker spot,” named because of finishes like this. We’ve yet to discuss Jackson’s defensive potential, which is what got him drafted so high in the first place. He’s showing he can stone smaller players on switches, using his quick feet and long arms to envelop the space those penetrators need to thrive. His shot-blocking instincts are terrific, as are his pick-and-roll fundamentals. Once he builds more upper-body strength and gains more experience, shot alters like this will become more common. For now, fouling is a major weakness that constantly holds him back. Jackson commits 5.3 fouls per 36 minutes, thanks to overly jumpy feet that combine with his still-developing core strength to produce too many sloppy infractions. His diverse array of skills won’t do much good when he’s on the bench. But remember, Jackson’s only 20. His consistency comes and goes, but that tends to happen with big men who possess uncommon skills and a willingness to experiment. Retaining Jonas Valanciunas was a shrewd move; his reliability is a useful foil to Jackson’s tantalizing possibility. JV gives Memphis the luxury of choice. They can sit him to ramp up Jackson’s learning curve, but they can also use the two together or play Valanciunas alone during one of Jackson’s tapering periods. There’s a world in which Jackson becomes a star, especially if he further improves his right-handed dribble and cuts down on his propensity to foul. At the same time, that aspiration may prove to be a poisoned chalice if it requires Jackson to turn one of his many skills into a mega skill that becomes the foundation of his game. When you force an NBA Kirby into a specialized role, even one as well-regarded as being the main star of a team, it often takes away from the essence that makes them so valuable. That’s why the Kirbys who have laid the groundwork for Jackson followed unique development paths. Siakam didn’t take a jump until he was freed to fail on Toronto’s second unit. Adebayo always had potential, but needed a defined starting role and a playmaking vacuum to rise to the occasion this season. Green may not have redefined the center position if not for David Lee getting hurt in training camp. They needed to walk their own unique paths to properly develop their unique games. Jackson has something his ancestors didn’t: an opportunity to be himself from the jump. He’s one of the pillars for a rising young team, free to fail, learn, and develop consistency without too many short-term stakes. On top of that, he’s in an era where unique big men are treasured instead of scorned, with a young coach in Taylor Jenkins that happily embraces his perimeter skill instead of forcing him to be the kind of burly big man that he’s not. That makes Jackson a unicorn, even among his unicorn-like peers. Let’s hope the destination is as fun as the journey promises to be.+++1
The reason behind Brandon Ingram’s emergence and how Zion Williamson’s return complicates it 6 Williamson’s injury gave Ingram the spacing and platform to play like a future star. Is that still possible with Williamson coming back? By Mike Prada  Jan 8, 2020, 1:31pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options A collage of Brandon Ingram featuring a photo of Zion Williamson. What Zion Williamson’s return can tell us about Brandon Ingram’s career year. On Oct. 21, 2019, a 48-word New Orleans Pelicans press release put a mammoth damper on the beginning of the new NBA season. Zion Williamson, the rookie sensation that looked even more exciting than advertised in preseason, would miss 6-8 weeks after knee surgery. Nobody with a pulse was happy with this development. But as the old adage goes, one man’s misfortune is often another’s gain. Without Williamson, something beautiful has happened: Brandon Ingram is becoming the star he was supposed to be when he entered the league in 2016. With Williamson out of the lineup, Ingram’s slid up a position to power forward and gobbled up the lion’s share of Williamson’s usage. The results have been spectacular, at least from Ingram’s perspective. He’s averaging more than 25 points, nearly seven rebounds, and almost four assists per game, all while dramatically upping his usage and scoring efficiency. He’s become a reliable No. 1 scorer in crunch time and is playing with a freedom and confidence he’s never displayed. Ingram’s emergence is coming at the perfect time, considering his scary past — a blood clot in his shoulder threatened to ruin his career last year — and his lucrative future as the headline restricted free agent of next year’s weak class. Without Williamson’s injury, it’s hard to imagine this happening. Zion’s absence isn’t the only factor in Ingram’s rise, but it sure provided the platform, floor spacing, and featured role Ingram needed to maximize his game. Williamson’s return is on the horizon, so can Ingram still be his best self when they share the court? The answer has significant implications for the Pelicans and Ingram’s own career arc. The reality is the current on-court conditions with the Pelicans are built for Ingram to thrive. Without Williamson, coach Alvin Gentry has leaned even further into his high-tempo ethos. Sixty-eight percent of Ingram’s minutes have been at power forward this year, compared to just 18 percent last year with the Lakers. That setup is uniquely built to maximize Ingram’s strengths and minimize his weaknesses. Ingram’s offensive skill, off-the-dribble power, and shaky spot-up shooting (at least before this year) meant he needed to play with the ball in his hands. Give him time and space to build up speed, and he’s always been able to use his core strength, long arms, and point guard-like shake to thrive. At the same time, his high center of gravity limited the efficient openings he was able to create for himself and others. Without a spread floor, Ingram-centric possessions often looked like this. Ingram is at his best when he’s able to attack quickly and decisively without having a lot of bodies in his way. He needs teammates to space the floor so he can get downhill more easily, but also requires others to push the ball to get him a running start. On top of that, he also needed ways to go against bigger defenders that lacked his foot speed, rather than smaller wings that could dig into his legs. That’s a tough environment to engineer while using Ingram as a more traditional wing, but it has suddenly become easier if he’s slides up a position. Without the injured Williamson, New Orleans’ base look now supplies Ingram with three perimeter players that’d be undersized even for shooting guards, plus a role-playing center to set screens and/or dive to the basket. That’s not a great lineup to use if you want to play passable defense, and the Pelicans unsurprisingly stink on that end. It is, however, perfect for making a guy like Ingram look better. As a 4, Ingram gets the benefit of playing with ball-handlers like Jrue Holiday and Lonzo Ball that can initiate the offense, floor-spacers like J.J. Redick, Josh Hart, and E’Twaun Moore that suck help defenders away, and big men like Derrick Favors and Jaxson Hayes that can lay the wood on Ingram’s primary defender (in Favors’ case) or offer a vertical threat rolling to the rim (in Hayes’). Those elements combine beautifully in set plays that give Ingram a head start, such as this staggered pick-and-roll. Or this dribble-handoff sequence — which, by the way, is the exact same one the Pelicans regularly used for Williamson in the preseason. Half Court Hoops @HalfCourtHoops Pelicans 21 Keep Cut 4 Pitch Action to get Zion downhill. Embedded video 245 4:51 PM - Oct 7, 2019 Twitter Ads info and privacy 23 people are talking about this Or in isolation sequences like this. Ingram’s hesitation to get to the cup is devastating, but he needs the space his teammates provide to set it up properly. They also help when Ingram attacks in transition, something the Pelicans actively seek out whenever possible. On most missed shots, Ingram advances up a wing, either by himself or after a pitch-ahead pass from the rebounder. When there, he sees blood, attacking the retreating defense using the precious running start his game requires. In these moments, he becomes a poor man’s Giannis Antetokounmpo, which is plenty fearsome in its own right. Look at how the rest of the Pelicans lurk along the three-point line. Even if he can’t dunk, Ingram has all the space in the world to flow into New Orleans’ early offense. The Lakers gave Ingram these opportunities, too, and the Pelicans will even after Williamson returns to the court. But with one less perimeter player to push tempo, run the wings, and/or occupy help defenders along the three-point line, Ingram will have less space to exploit. That means fewer chances to attack and more annoying help defenders nipping at his heels when he does. Plus, Williamson’s supposedly decent at going coast-to-coast with the ball in his hands, too. The Pelicans might want to explore that skill. Just a thought. Bottom line: while Williamson’s return is great for the franchise and the NBA, it’ll force Ingram to leave his personal Camelot. Can Williamson and Ingram both live their best lives for the next decade without bumping into each other? One emphatic reason for optimism is Ingram’s emerging three-point shot, which has been shockingly wet this year after looking ugly in his three Lakers seasons. As of Jan. 7, Ingram is shooting over 40 percent from downtown on nearly six attempts per game, a massive improvement from his 33-percent mark on less than two attempts per contest last year. Incredibly, Ingram is shooting more than 40 percent on above-the-break threes, which puts him in the 87th percentile at his position, according to Cleaning the Glass. I knew Ingram’s jumper was improved and I still did a double take when I saw those numbers. One must exercise caution when proclaiming a broken jumper fixed based on just half a season of data, but there’s ample evidence that Ingram’s new sharp-shooting is here to stay. He’s nailing off-the-dribble looks when defenders go under ball screens. He’s splashing wing threes on the move. He’s even pulling up in defenders’ faces. His form rising up for his shot has improved dramatically. Notice all the mechanical differences between these two spot-up jumpers from the exact same spot on the left wing. Credit Ingram and the Pelicans’ player development staff for smoothing all those abnormalities out. If his new jumper is here to stay, he can certainly find ways to score while playing off Williamson. Defenders already open up driving lanes for him by closing out too hard on his shot. He’ll get more chances to make moves like this with Williamson sucking attention away. Still, I have concerns. Even if Ingram is a more capable spot-up shooter than he was in the past, it’s still a waste of his talent to use him that way. I worry that sliding him down a position will force him to go against more of those quicker defenders that can slide into his low center of gravity. I also worry about the other end of the floor. Ingram’s body is not built to fight through screens and he’s too easily wedged out of the play as the primary defender on pick-and-rolls and off-ball action. Returning him to the wing will put him in more of those types of actions. Yet there is one tantalizing possibility that could solve two problems in one: what if Williamson slides up a position so Ingram can stay as a power forward? What if that’s the Pelicans’ frontcourt, traditional center be damned? Don’t dismiss this idea offhand. As The Ringer’s Jonathan Tjarks noted, Williamson’s skill set could lend itself beautifully to being a small-ball center. He’d be less likely to muck up the Pelicans’ spacing that way on offense, and he did anchor one of the nation’s best defenses at Duke with his combination of speed and length. Meanwhile, Ingram may actually be better off playing more like a big man on defense instead of as a wing. His length could be one hell of an asset on the backside. An Ingram-Williamson frontcourt with three small guards may not seem like the ideal way to fix New Orleans’ leaky defense, but it can’t get much worse than what it is now, even if Favors’ return has shored things up a bit. Making Williamson a center to keep Ingram at his best offensive position might be too bold in the short term, but it’s worth considering in the long run. Williamson is the franchise, yet Ingram’s been too brilliant in his absence to scale back his role too much. Embracing small-ball may be the only way to ensure Williamson’s knee surgery remains a blessing in disguise instead of merely a curse. CLOSEOUT OF THE WEEK Three-point shooting is essential, yet there’s no good stat that credits defenders for the essential act of preventing a three-pointer from being taken. We must reward these efforts. Fred VanVleet’s steal at the end of this sequence is nice, but the closeout before it is even more impressive. It’s not humanly possible to be any closer to a shooter without fouling. REBOUND JOUST OF THE WEEK Last year, I wrote about the rising trend of teammates fighting each other for defensive rebounds. These moments usually end harmlessly, but occasionally, they can cost a team. Here’s to over-aggression! This clip is more than a week old, but screw it. Anytime there’s a THREE-MAN REBOUND JOUST, it must be celebrated.+++1
Who’s more valuable for the Utah Jazz, Donovan Mitchell or Rudy Gobert? 8 The Utah Jazz have two great stars. Which one is more valuable? By Michael Pina  Jan 15, 2020, 10:04am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options A collage of Donovan Mitchell (right) and Rudy Gobert (left). Which of the two stars on the Utah Jazz is more valuable? Since the curtain closed on Karl Malone and John Stockton’s partnership nearly two decades ago, the Utah Jazz have only sent five players to the All-Star game: Andrei Kirilenko (2004), Mehmet Okur (2007), Carlos Boozer (2007, 2008), Deron Williams (2010, 2011), and Gordon Hayward (2017). This year Utah has Donovan Mitchell and Rudy Gobert, two strong candidates with unique qualities none of those aforementioned All-Stars ever had. Both are deserving on a second place, 28-12 steamroller that’s won 10 in a row and has led the NBA in net rating for a month. There’s easily a world where both qualify, but the field is crowded, with solid cases to be made for several non-lock hopefuls such as Karl-Anthony Towns, Chris Paul, Devin Booker, Russell Westbrook, DeMar DeRozan, Brandon Ingram, and a couple others. For the sake of conversation we’ll operate under the assumption that coaches will only vote one Jazz player in. And for reasons that go beyond surface-level frivolousness implied by this sort of thought exercise, I’ve spent way too much time wondering who it will be. The following questions don’t necessarily apply to choosing an All-Star off half-a-season’s worth of action, but allow for more important issues to be explored on the journey towards an answer: Who is more essential to Utah’s identity? Who raises their ceiling? Who stabilizes their floor? Who is better? Before I sat down to actually do research for this piece my answer to most of these questions was split, with a slight tilt towards Mitchell. Chalk that up to offensive bias, youth, and him occupying a role that’s harder to replace, but after I dug through numbers, watched a bunch of Jazz games, and talked to a few people around the team, parsing out an advantage one way or another quickly became impossible. Let’s start with a look at Gobert, a 27-year-old on track to win his third-straight Defensive Player of the Year award and a fourth-straight first-place finish in defensive real plus-minus. Unimpeachable dominance on half his team’s possessions isn’t the only reason Gobert stands out among his peers. The guy brings it on the other end, every night, knowing there won’t be more than three or four plays called for him to score. His usage rate has never cleared 17.5 percent. This year it’s 16.6, below Ivika Zubac, Bismack Biyombo, Mason Plumlee, and, of all people, Al Horford. And when his number does get called it’s usually circa deception, with him cutting off a back screen, hands raised for an easy dunk. Gobert’s effort is critical because he also happens to be at the crux of everything the Jazz want to do with the ball. They lead the league in possessions finished by a pick-and-roll ball-handler because Gobert is the best screen setter in the league, and capable of not only sucking help defenders in from the corners but also occupying his own man’s attention. This is his third-straight season leading the league in screen assists, while averaging a full two more than he did last year. Whether he’s dancing with Mitchell, Joe Ingles, Bojan Bogdanovic, or even a newcomer like Jordan Clarkson, when the ball-handler and Gobert read the same sheet of music there’s very little two defenders can do to stop it. Without him the Jazz would have to change everything about how they play, from the carefully plotted dribble hand-offs to their conservatively taut approach towards getting stops. (Utah’s defense is first in location effective field goal percentage, which basically means they do a better job than anyone at forcing opponents to take shots they don’t want to take.) He seems stronger this year, committed to his role with an admirable discipline that gives the Jazz a threshold they can’t sink below when he’s on the court. But that doesn’t mean there aren’t several small drawbacks that accumulate in an unfortunate way during the playoffs. All those hard rolls that prevent his man from selling out to stop the ball go stagnant against teams that are happy to switch the screen. Gobert doesn’t post up—Aron Baynes averages twice as many per game—because he isn’t graceful doing it. Turnovers are a common occurrence, especially against smaller defenders who step up without fear. Gobert led the league in field goal percentage last year and he’s currently making 67.6 percent of his 8.6 shots per game—something that’s never been done (non-Wilt Chamberlain division)—but he can’t score efficiently without assistance, and is a liability dribbling the ball with his face towards the basket while 20 feet from the rim. That hurts. Space creation is synonymous with effective offense in a playoff series, and for all Gobert’s activity—how he screens away, cuts at the right time, and hunts every missed shot—he still can’t make defenders who ignore him pay with a reliable jumper. In that way he’s not Nikola Jokic, Joel Embiid, or Towns. Defensively, he’s still vulnerable in space, which forces the Jazz to drop him back into the paint against pick-and-rolls, regardless of how lethal the opposing ball-handler’s pull-up three might be. That lessens his flexibility in certain matchups, but it’s not powerful enough to disqualify Utah from title contention or anything like that. It’s easier to appreciate Gobert’s awesomeness if you watch a lot of Utah Jazz basketball. If not, it’s easy to gloss over his strengths and scrutinize his weaknesses. There’s something antiquated about Gobert’s game, which is in the mold of an entire class of centers who came before him. But right now he is the A+ iteration. If you’re going to have any one big who rim runs, sets screens, protects the basket, grabs 15 rebounds a night, and can’t shoot but doesn’t wish or pretend he could, there’s no better option. As a counter to Gobert’s subtle, steady impact stands Mitchell, an infinity-pool-tucked-inside-a-wine-cave luxury for a team that already has enough shooting and playmakers to manufacture solid offense for 3.5 quarters. Mitchell envelops the Jazz in his own panache whenever he’s on the floor, but when their system stalls in crunch time he asserts his greatest value (only Zach LaVine and Chris Paul have taken more clutch shots all season) and becomes the shot-creating privilege Utah needs if it wants to win it all. Mitchell’s 24.2 points per game are attached to a star’s sheen that can’t be discounted and is nearly impossible to replace. He puts constant pressure on the opponent, be it with the 8.8 field goal attempts he gets from driving the ball (third most this season) or pulling up on defenders who have to respect that first step. His 51.5 effective field goal percentage on off-the-dribble shots is near the top of the league. Every team wants a player who can make broken possessions look like they’re part of the game plan. Mitchell already does. He’s able to inflict trauma with gymnastic feats that tug at the sleeve of his team’s patient offensive structure. (The Jazz rank dead last in transition frequency, per Cleaning the Glass.) More often than not that creates an advantage, but sometimes it’s a defect. Mitchell’s shot selection can be erratic, set to a rhythm that’s outside the game’s. To actually make his first All-Star team he will have to clear two of Booker, Ingram, and Paul. That’s not impossible, even though he’s the least efficient of the four by a decent margin. Mitchell can get buckets in a variety of electrifying ways and he throws passes that are incomprehensible when seen live. But his playmaking is still more sizzle than substance. For every pinpoint frozen rope that he’ll whip to a teammate who’s just barely open, Mitchell will launch three off-the-dribble jump shots that bail out the defense. Impatience is understandable for someone with whom the laws of gravity do not apply, but that’s one area where marked improvement can make him flawless. “It takes some time to find yourself in new situations, in order to get better at them,” Jazz head coach Quin Snyder said. “So some things you can’t rush, and I think he’s recognizing more of those ... whether it be making a pass that’s more accurate in a situation or all kinds of little nuances that he’s recognizing and working on and taking a lot of pride in.” As he matures, Mitchell will get a better sense of when it’s acceptable to yank the pin from a grenade and toss it into a possession, and when he just needs to flow inside Utah’s action—integral but not overwhelming. Until that balance is discovered, it’s OK to wonder the degree to which Mitchell actually makes his teammates better—a question that does not apply to Gobert, whose sheer activity raises everybody else’s floor. When stacking Gobert’s value beside Mitchell’s, it’s worth noting that Utah’s net rating goes from +11.4 to -3.8 points per 100 possessions when the dynamic combo guard is without his anchor. Flip them around and Utah is still +5.3 points per 100 possessions when Gobert plays without Mitchell. That disparity is noisy but also not the world’s biggest coincidence. And even though I’d prefer having Mitchell on my team for the next five years—particularly in the playoffs—it’s impossible to deny Gobert’s centripetal impact on his team’s foundational success. He’s less glamorous than every other All-Star candidate, but it’s so hard to picture the Jazz actually getting better on one side of the ball if he missed significant time with an injury, as the Minnesota Timberwolves have since Towns went down over a month ago.+++1
The Warriors trading D’Angelo Russell to the Timberwolves would be a win-win for both sides 45 Why a trade sending Russell to Minnesota makes sense for both the Warriors and Wolves. By Ricky O'Donnell  Jan 17, 2020, 12:22pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options D’Angelo Russell celebrates on the Warriors. What will the Warriors do with D’Angelo Russell? The Minnesota Timberwolves thought they had D’Angelo Russell last summer. Armed with max salary cap space and his close friend Karl-Anthony Towns, the Wolves headed into free agency confident they could ink Russell to a deal. It fell apart in the hours just before July 1, when Russell reached an agreement with the Golden State Warriors as part of a sign-and-trade for Kevin Durant. From the moment Russell arrived in Golden State, there was speculation about what the Warriors could trade him for. His ball dominant-style of play and lack of defensive impact was simply never going to be a perfect fit next to a healthy Stephen Curry and Klay Thompson. With both stars injured, Russell has put up numbers in line with his All-Star season a year ago, but the whispers about his future with Golden State never stopped. The Timberwolves haven’t given up on landing him just yet. The Wolves plan to “intensify their pursuit” of Russell on the trade market as the Feb. 15 deadline grows closer, according to Jon Krawczynski and Shams Charania of The Athletic. Reaching a deal in-season is going to be particularly difficult because the Warriors are hard capped, but expect rumors connecting Russell to Minnesota to continue into the summer. There are likely going to be a lot of teams interested in Russell, a 23-year-old guard averaging 23.1 points per game on the best scoring efficiency of his career this season. While there won’t be any shortage of offers if the Warriors do decide to trade him, a potential deal with Minnesota feels like a win-win for both sides. Here’s why. Why trading for Russell makes sense for the Timberwolves After a strong start the season, the Timberwolves playoff chances are currently on life support. As Towns has missed a stretch of games due to injury and illness, Minnesota has slipped to 15-25 overall. The Wolves’ biggest problem has been point guard play. After trading Jeff Teague to the Atlanta Hawks mid-season, the Wolves are certainly going to be looking to add a dynamic lead guard. Russell fits the bill perfectly. He would give the Wolves a go-to scorer on the perimeter, and also someone who could get the ball to Towns. A Towns-Russell pairing in the two-man game would be deadly. Towns has become a historically good three-point shooter for a big man, connecting on 41.8 percent of the 8.5 attempts per game he takes from behind the arc. Russell loves operating pick-and-roll and pick-and-pop plays, which have accounted for 42 percent of his possessions in Golden State. With deep shooting range himself and a reliable floater, Russell can beat a defense himself going downhill or springing back to the three-point line, where he’s been a 37-percent shooter on more than nine attempts per game. Taking a ton of threes is a key part of Minnesota’s philosophy under new GM Gersson Rosas and head coach Ryan Saunders. The only problem is the Wolves don’t have enough good shooters, especially in the backcourt. Minnesota attempts 39 three-pointers per game, which ranks No. 3 in the league, but only makes 32.4 percent of them, which ranks No. 29 overall. Russell’s style of play would be a seamless fit for how the team wants to play. The other factor at play here is Russell’s relationship with Towns. The two entered the league together as the first two picks in the 2015 NBA Draft and have remained tight ever since. Towns will have four seasons left on his supermax contract after this year, and the Wolves want to make sure they can keep him happy and help him win while he’s in Minnesota. Why a deal with the Wolves makes sense for the Warriors RELATED Robert Covington is the NBA role player every team needs What should the Warriors be looking for if they decide to deal Russell? Ideally, a big wing who can defend and shoot, plus another intriguing young player who can add athleticism to their bench. The Wolves happen to check both boxes. Robert Covington has long been one of the league’s most underrated players. A gem from Sam Hinkie’s “Process” days with the Philadelphia 76ers, Covington is a versatile 6’9 forward who can stretch the floor with his shooting on offense while playing some of the league’s best wing defense. Covington, who just turned 29 years old, doesn’t put up huge numbers, but his impact on winning goes beyond his per-game stats. Minnesota has other young players they can add to the deal. It’s unlikely the Wolves will want to part with Jarrett Culver, last year’s No. 6 overall pick, but Josh Okogie should be attainable for the Warriors. Okogie was the No. 20 overall pick in the 2018 draft as a super long and super athletic wing who can make plays on the defensive end. Okogie struggles to score efficiently — he’s a 38-percent shooter from the field for his career — but his 7-foot wingspan and elite explosiveness would be a welcome addition to Golden State’s bench. The Wolves also have Gorgui Dieng to include to match salaries. While the Warriors wouldn’t love paying Dieng $17 million next season, his contract expires after the 2020-2021 season. Perhaps his expiring deal would be an asset on the trade market. Covington and Okogie don’t have the name recognition or numbers of Russell, but they would be great fits alongside Curry, Thompson, and Draymond Green. Add in a top pick in this upcoming draft and cap space moving forward, and the Warriors are likely to again make themselves a factor in the Western Conference. Other teams will make offers — what if the Sixers offered Al Horford and Matisse Thybulle? — but unless someone else really cashes in the farm for Russell, a deal with Minnesota might be the Warriors’ best option. A trade between these two teams would likely have to wait until the offseason due to Golden State’s current hard cap constraints, but don’t be surprised if this eventually works out.+++1
Markelle Fultz’s trade to the Magic was the best thing that could have happened to him 5 Markelle Fultz has found the perfect situation with the Magic. By Ricky O'Donnell  Jan 16, 2020, 1:07pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Markelle Fultz drives vs. the Lakers. Markelle Fultz is starting to put it together for the Magic. The Orlando Magic needed a long-term solution to their point guard problem. The Philadelphia 76ers were ready to move on from one of the most bizarre and frustrating NBA draft stories the league has ever seen. And so just before last season’s trade deadline passed, the Magic completed a trade for Markelle Fultz, sending a 2020 first round pick (protected 1-20) to the Sixers along with wing Jonathan Simmons to acquire the former No. 1 overall pick. Fultz never stepped on the court for the Magic last season after the trade as he rehabbed his busted shoulder, but the Magic still decided to pick up his fourth-year option for the 2020-2021 season at a hefty $12.3 million. Despite everything that held back his short-lived pro career to that point, Orlando’s faith in Fultz never wavered. Now the Magic are starting to be rewarded for it. Fultz has been in staple in the Orlando lineup all season, and he’s been ... perfectly fine. He’s grading out as just about an average player according to advanced metrics like PIPM and 538’s RAPTOR , a point guard who still struggles to shoot from the perimeter but impacts the game as a skilled finisher and defensive presence. On his best nights, Fultz hints at the special talent that once made him such a coveted draft prospect. His breakthrough performance against the Los Angeles Lakers at the Staples Center on Wednesday night was exactly that. Fultz helped deliver Orlando a 119-118 win with the second triple-double of his career, finishing with 21 points, 11 rebounds, and 10 assists. He scored two baskets in the final minute to secure victory, first shaking JaVale McGee out of his shoes on a reverse layup and then creating an ocean of separation against LeBron James before laying in Orlando’s final field goal of the night. It felt like this was the Markelle Fultz we were waiting for all along. The Magic have now won six of their last eight, featuring victories over the Heat, Lakers, and the team that was directly in front of them in the standings, the Brooklyn Nets. The Magic remain a game under .500 but are now positioned as the No. 7 seed in the Eastern Conference. After an uninspired start to the season, Orlando is playing some of its best ball, even without injured forward Jonathan Isaac, who was one of the team’s biggest bright spots. Fultz, meanwhile, is still only 21 years old. He’s made major progress this season in several areas, most notably in durability — he’s already played 40 games this season after playing only 33 in his first two seasons combined — and as a free throw shooter. Fultz’s story is far from finished, but the Magic have to be pleased with how he’s progressing so far. This looked like the Markelle Fultz we were promised Fultz was a brilliant prospect when he entered the draft in 2017 out of Washington. At 6’4, he was a big, smooth ball handler who could create offense out of thin air. Fultz played with a level of creativity that couldn’t be taught, slithering through opposing defenses for dribble pull-ups and crafty finishes while leveraging his own scoring ability to set up teammates for easy buckets. Of course, Fultz was also a dynamic shooter as a college player, hitting 41.3 percent of the 126 threes he attempted as a freshman. Fultz’s three-point shooting remains a lost cause — he’s hit 26.5 percent of 68 attempts from downtown this season — but the rest of his skill set is starting to resemble his college scouting report. The guy who shook LeBron for the winning basket in crunch-time? That’s who the Sixers thought they were getting at No. 1 overall: Orlando Magic   @OrlandoMagic Triple-Double & The Clutch Bucket@MarkelleF | #MagicAboveAll Embedded video 1,230 9:50 PM - Jan 15, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 292 people are talking about this Fultz has quietly been a tremendous finisher at the rim this season, hitting 65.5 percent of his attempts inside of three-feet. Those numbers are in line with his career averages before this season, but they’re still impressive. Fultz has made more apparent strides as an insider scorer just away from the rim. On shots between three-feet and 10-feet, he’s hitting 43 percent of his attempts, after never hitting better than 29 percent in that area before this season. The creativity, body control, and touch it requires to be a great inside scorer have been on display all season for Fultz. This move put it all together: NBA   @NBA Markelle Fultz (17 PTS, 11 REB, 9 AST) handles and spins it off the glass! #MagicAboveAll : https://nba.app.link/leaguepass2 Embedded video 2,759 9:40 PM - Jan 15, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 400 people are talking about this Add in that Fultz is no longer afraid to get fouled — he’s up to 74 percent from the line after hitting only 56 percent of his free throws last season — and the signs of a young guard who can put pressure on the rim are there. In some sense, these are baby steps for the former No. 1 overall pick, but the Magic are perfectly fine with letting Fultz develop at his own pace. Orlando can allow Fultz to grow in a low pressure environment The trade to Orlando was the best thing that could have ever happened to Fultz. There was simply too much pressure in Philadelphia to live up to his pre-draft expectations. His mysterious injury combined with rampant speculation that his problems were mostly mental the whole time created an insane tension that few young players could have developed in. Philadelphia’s championship-or-bust aspirations didn’t help matters, either. The stakes are so much lower with the Magic. A successful season for Orlando means making the playoffs and maybe taking a game or two once it gets there. This is about development for young players like Fultz, Isaac, and Mohamed Bamba. After six straight seasons of missing the postseason following the trade of Dwight Howard, the Magic are happy just to see the fruits of their rebuild start to pay off in some small way. For the franchise to take a serious next step towards contention, Fultz has to continue to develop into what the league thought he would be pre-draft. Even if that doesn’t fully come to fruition, he’s still a serviceable NBA player who should have a long career provided he can remain durable. Until then, Orlando waits. For now, the flashes from Fultz will keep hope alive.+++1
Kyrie Irving said more things that will probably make his Nets teammates mad 66 Kyrie Irving doesn’t think him and Kevin Durant are enough for the Nets. By Matt Ellentuck@mellentuck  Updated Jan 17, 2020, 3:49pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Brooklyn Nets v Philadelphia 76ers Photo by Mitchell Leff/Getty Images Three games into his return from a two-month injury, Kyrie Irving thinks the Nets need more talent. Following an 11-point loss to the Sixers, Irving was asked what his team needs to do to reach championship-level contention, and he feels the Nets are “one or two pieces” away. Even with Kevin Durant. ”Collectively, I feel like we have great pieces,” Irving said, “but it’s pretty glaring we need one more piece or two more pieces that will complement myself, KD [Kevin Durant], DJ [DeAndre Jordan], GT [Garrett Temple], Spence [Dinwiddie], Caris [LeVert], and we’ll see how that evolves.” Irving did preface with compliments for his teammates, saying “We have complementary young guys as well that have done a great job the last three years.” But those young players were noticeably absent from the list of vets Irving clearly sees as the key pieces for next year’s title run. Could Irving follow LeBron James’ footsteps in coercing his team to deal prospects for vets? Let’s talk about what this all means. Why does Irving feel this team isn’t enough as is? The biggest question here is why Irving thinks his team is insufficient as is. A big two of KD and Irving is probably enough to crack the top 3 or 4 with merely league-average surrounding talent in a shallow Eastern Conference. Despite having better than league-average talent, Irving still doesn’t think that’s enough. This would be a ludicrous statement even before the season started, but it’s even more so in January given Irving’s injury circumstances. How could he possibly know how good this team really is? This Nets season has been even messier than expected. Irving’s hardly been around. We knew Kevin Durant would miss the entire season as he recovers from a torn Achilles. In the interim, the Nets were supposed to enjoy a run to the playoffs as the team studied how the rest of the core fits around its next-best star. But Irving’s missed 26 straight games to a shoulder injury. He’s only played in 14 games. That’s not nearly a big enough sample size to assess what Brooklyn has. If we’re breaking down the numbers (which are again, small samples), the Nets have been slightly better without Irving anyway. In 14 games with him, they’re 5-9, being outscored by two points per 100 possessions, per StatMuse. Without him, they’re 13-13, being outscored by 1.6 points per 100 possessions. It’s hard to put blanket statements over this Brooklyn Nets team because we’ve hardly seen the bulk of their roster play with their second-best player. And more importantly, we haven’t seen them play at all with a generational superstar. Kevin Durant changes the equation to a degree we can’t currently predict. This quote won’t sit well with teammates The NBA is at a point where superstars have maximized their power. Any young player in the Nets locker room has seen what Lonzo Ball, Brandon Ingram, Josh Hart and now Kyle Kuzma went through in L.A. The Lakers had no problem dangling their top prospects for superstars, and James had influence. Now any Net must think Kyrie could have him gone next. That’s a crap feeling regardless, but it hurts more coming from a player who’s only worn a Nets jersey 14 times ever. Especially since Irving’s recent track record with teammates is hardly stellar. Could this blow over? Sure. Irving talks often, and maybe this gets all cleared up behind the scenes, and everyone moves on with their day. Or maybe this is the start of something bigger all over again. Irving has a similarly bizarre string of quotes the next day:+++1
Richard Sherman won an NFC title, then immediately got into it with Darrelle Revis online 10 Darrelle Revis criticized Richard Sherman. As is tradition, the 49ers CB responded in kind. By Christian D'Andrea@TrainIsland  Updated Jan 20, 2020, 12:28pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options NFL: NFC Divisional Round-Minnesota Vikings at San Francisco 49ers Cary Edmondson-USA TODAY Sports Richard Sherman and Darrelle Revis are two of the best cornerbacks to take the field this millennium. They also don’t like each other very much. Revis called out the 49ers cornerback after he got beat on a Davante Adams deep route late in a 37-20 NFC title game win over the Packers. That led a triumphant Sherman to respond after he’d marched back to the San Francisco locker room. Moments later, we had shutdown cornerback beef. It all started here: Darrelle Revis   @Revis24 Fear of getting beat in man to man coverage. Every snap every play. The fact that he doesn’t travel as a cornerback is lame. Except the challenge as the best and shut Adams down the entire game. Do it for the game of football. Stop hiding a cover 3 zone. View image on Twitter 11.9K 6:37 PM - Jan 19, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 4,862 people are talking about this Revis’s criticism was rooted in the fact Sherman plays exclusively on the left side of the field (the quarterback’s right). He does not follow an opponent’s top wideout across the formation — he’s anchored to his sideline and latches onto whichever target is unlucky enough to roam into his territory. This is a strategy that works for Sherman and the 49ers, but it’s one that’s drawn criticism before. Deion Sanders had a similar message for Sherman back in 2014. “First of all, I know this position. When you look up, ‘cornerback,’ you see me. There’s a picture of me. When I start talking about cornerbacks, there’s Darrelle Revis; Champ Bailey; (Antonio) Cromartie from the Jets; Joe Haden; and, of course, Patrick Peterson. They play both sides. They play every receiver. “But with Sherman, I said, ‘Let me take a look at this guy who is only playing left corner and making all this noise. And what I found out was, he’s not as athletic as Patrick Peterson; he’s not quick and doesn’t come out of breaks like Champ Bailey. But the guy is smart. He studies his butt off. And the reason I know that is the anticipation I saw him make on a couple of plays comes from studying, not from skill. But he’s got a tremendous amount of skill as well.” That meant Sherman had already heard this complaint from a legendary cornerback. He was also intimately familiar with Revis’s trash talk. The two top corners spent much of 2013 publicly disliking each other. As such, he was prepared to fire back to a tweet he hadn’t even been tagged in. Richard Sherman   @RSherman_25 I would go in on this has been but I have a Super Bowl to prepare for.  Enjoy the view from the couch.  Your ninth year looked a lot different than this.  Lmao https://twitter.com/revis24/status/1219086432163246081 … Darrelle Revis   @Revis24 Fear of getting beat in man to man coverage. Every snap every play. The fact that he doesn’t travel as a cornerback is lame. Except the challenge as the best and shut Adams down the entire game. Do it for the game of football. Stop hiding a cover 3 zone. View image on Twitter 119K 8:44 PM - Jan 19, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 20.2K people are talking about this Sherman is an elite cornerback at age 31. He was Pro Football Focus’s top-rated corner of 2019 and named the organization’s top cornerback of the decade. NFL’s Next Gen Stats paint him in a less flattering light, rating him 19th in man coverage among CBs and 45th in zone coverage. Either way, he’s been a crucial part of San Francisco’s turnaround from the No. 2 overall pick last spring to the Super Bowl eight months later. Revis’s ninth season in the NFL was pretty good, though — as he pointed out in his response to the Niners’ defensive back Sunday night. Darrelle Revis   @Revis24 My 9th year I lead the entire league in turnovers. 5 Ints and 4 Fumble Recoveries. Enjoy the Super Bowl and strap up because this game you will have to cover. @RSherman_25  15.2K 9:01 PM - Jan 19, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 3,315 people are talking about this Revis spent 2015 with the Jets, which also happens to be the first year SIS’s advanced stats took root. Their data suggests he allowed just 30 completions on 74 targets (6.1 yards per target) and gave up three passing touchdowns to his five INTs. He had a 46.7 passer rating allowed in his ninth season as a pro. Sherman’s passer rating allowed in his ninth season, per SIS, was 55.8 — though he was thrown at only 3.3 times per game to Revis’s 5.3. Moments later, Sherman realized the real flaw in Revis’s opening salvo. He fired back as needed. Richard Sherman   @RSherman_25 And it’s “Accept”.  Thought I would give you a lesson while I was here https://twitter.com/revis24/status/1219086432163246081 … Darrelle Revis   @Revis24 Fear of getting beat in man to man coverage. Every snap every play. The fact that he doesn’t travel as a cornerback is lame. Except the challenge as the best and shut Adams down the entire game. Do it for the game of football. Stop hiding a cover 3 zone. View image on Twitter 79.5K 9:02 PM - Jan 19, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 7,551 people are talking about this He wasn’t content to stand down after this grammar burn. Sherman’s next response took a shot at one of Revis’s relative strengths. Richard Sherman   @RSherman_25 I have to cover every game kid.  I get my hands on the football in the playoffs something you will never know anything about. https://twitter.com/revis24/status/1219122840189984769 … Darrelle Revis   @Revis24 My 9th year I lead the entire league in turnovers. 5 Ints and 4 Fumble Recoveries. Enjoy the Super Bowl and strap up because this game you will have to cover. @RSherman_25     38.9K 9:04 PM - Jan 19, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 6,143 people are talking about this This was an odd counterpunch from Sherman. Revis had three interceptions in 10 postseason games (0.33 per game). The 49ers’ corner picked off Aaron Rodgers’ desperation deep ball late in the fourth quarter Sunday to give him four in 14 playoff appearances (0.29 per game). Revis also has one Super Bowl ring — the same number as Sherman, who’ll have another chance to win one at Super Bowl 54 — and won his at the expense of Sherman’s Seahawks in 2015. This was the point where Revis excused himself from the conversation by praising Sherman’s play, then chiding him for not doing enough on the field. Darrelle Revis   @Revis24 Correction pup. Think you have to go check the stats. You’re balling in the postseason. Not taking anything from your play. As a corner we play best on best to challenge the #1 receiver, every snap, 4 quarters. Waiting for you to do the same. @RSherman_25 2,628 10:04 PM - Jan 19, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 853 people are talking about this Then, after bowing out of the exchange, Revis dropped his most regrettable tweet of the night. Darrelle Revis   @Revis24 Watching Gemini Man...Big Will Smith fan. 320 10:23 PM - Jan 19, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 71 people are talking about this Ummm ... 26 percent fresh. Gross. Sherman took one last shot at Revis in response to an earlier tweet: Richard Sherman   @RSherman_25 Pound for pound.... lmao this kid has selective memory. https://twitter.com/revis24/status/1219091494105231361 … View image on Twitter Darrelle Revis   @Revis24 All y’all think I’m throwing shade. I’m not. Just stating the man is not a pound for pound man to man corner. If you know the game of football he plays in a Cover 3 Scheme. He does not travel but traveling with a receiver is not for every DB. It’s a few on the corner list who can 10.4K 12:35 AM - Jan 20, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 2,101 people are talking about this Then spent the rest of his night pumping up his teammates and soaking up some Super Bowl hype. Who won this exchange? No one? Revis fired a shot by picking out a rare instance of Sherman getting beat — not by some scrub, but by a wideout who’d dismantled the Seahawks in the Divisional Round a week before. He did so late in a game the 49ers were winning by multiple touchdowns. It was a weird flex. Sherman pounced back with some inaccurate insults about the former All-Pro’s credentials. Really, the only unimpeachable blow here was Sherman casting a +1 grammar burn on his retired counterpart. Fine. Then who was the better NFL cornerback? They were both very good and will likely each get their own Hall of Fame busts. Isn’t that enough? No. Dammit. Let’s stack up credentials: All-Pro honors Revis: 4 (4x first team) Sherman: 5 (3x first team, 2x second team) Pro Bowl honors Revis: 7 Sherman: 5 Career interceptions Revis: 32 (.21 per game) Sherman: 39 (.26) Career passes defensed Revis: 147 (.95 per game) Sherman: 126 (.85 per game) Super Bowl victories Revis: 1 (one appearance) Sherman: 1 (three appearances, including the undecided outcome of Super Bowl 54) Career earnings to date Revis: $124.2 million ($11.29m per year) Sherman: $69.7 million ($7.75m per year) Revis used a higher draft slot and a healthier jump into free agency to out-earn Sherman, who will make a shade under $9 million next season before incentives. He also knocked down more passes than Sherman, but was also targeted more often — something that makes the former Seahawk’s higher interception rate all the more impressive. And while Sherman holds the lead in Super Bowl appearances, Revis helped get Mark Sanchez to back-to-back AFC title games, which has to be worth something. All things considered, both were game-breaking cornerbacks. Revis was better at shadowing opponents’ WR1s, but saw more passes thrown his way (and got burned more often) as a result. Sherman has been a lockdown corner throughout his career and may be the best player in NFL history when it comes to turning targets into turnovers. He’s also often had a stronger supporting cast (hello, Legion of Boom) that allowed him to settle in on the left sideline rather than remain glued to opponents’ top options. I dunno, man. Turns out they’re both great.+++1
The Super Bowl history of the Chiefs and 49ers, at a glance 7 Kansas City hasn’t won the Super Bowl in 50 years, while it’s been 25 for San Francisco. By Morgan Moriarty@Morgan_Moriarty  Jan 20, 2020, 8:00am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Classic NFL Photo by Icon Sportswire The Super Bowl LIV matchup is set. On Feb. 2, the Kansas City Chiefs will meet the San Francisco 49ers at Hard Rock Stadium in Miami. Both of these franchises have Super Bowl histories, though it’s been a long time since either has hoisted the Lombardi Trophy. The 49ers have more Super Bowl wins than all but just two teams in the NFL, whereas the Chiefs have played for a championship twice. Let’s take a look at how these two teams’ Super Bowl histories compare. Kansas City Chiefs Super Bowl appearances, including this season: 3 Championships: 1 Chiefs fans have had to wait decades to see their team reach another Super Bowl. In fact, it’s been a whole 50 years since Kansas City has played in a Super Bowl. The Chiefs had the fourth-longest active drought without a Super Bowl appearance until they ended that streak this year. During the 1969 season, the Chiefs went 11-3, won their first two playoff games, and then defeated the Minnesota Vikings in Super Bowl IV, 23-7. Kansas City quarterback Len Dawson was named the MVP, throwing for 142 yards and the game’s only passing touchdown. Previously, the Chiefs had played in the first-ever Super Bowl in January 1967, when they lost 35-10 to the Green Bay Packers. At halftime, this famous picture of Dawson smoking a cigarette and drinking a Fresca was taken: Bryan Armen Graham   @BryanAGraham Here's Len Dawson smoking a cigarette and drinking a Fresca *during halftime* of Super Bowl I. View image on Twitter 216 10:00 AM - Jan 29, 2014 Twitter Ads info and privacy 394 people are talking about this At the time, it was called the AFL-NFL World Championship Game, though it was later renamed Super Bowl I. The Chiefs’ Super Bowl win three years later was also the final season of the American Football League before it merged with the NFL in 1970. Until now, the closest the Chiefs came to the Super Bowl after that was two conference championship game berths. In January 1994, the Chiefs lost 30-13 to the Buffalo Bills. Last season, Kansas City fell to the New England Patriots, 37-31, in overtime of the AFC title game. Chiefs’ Super Bowl appearances by season: 1966: Loss to the Packers 1969: Win over the Vikings 2019: ?? against the 49ers San Francisco 49ers Super Bowl appearances, including this season: 7 Championships: 5 The 49ers have a much more extensive Super Bowl history than the Chiefs, but it took them longer to make it to a championship game. The 49ers won their first Super Bowl in the 1981 season under legendary head coach Bill Walsh. The 49ers beat the Cincinnati Bengals 26-21, and quarterback Joe Montana was named the game’s MVP. He threw for 157 yards and a touchdown while adding a rushing touchdown. Walsh won two more Super Bowls for San Francisco during the 1984 and 1988 seasons, also with Montana as his quarterback. The 49ers took down Dan Marino’s Dolphins team and then Cincinnati again four years later. Walsh retired in 1989 following the last Super Bowl win, and the very next year, new head coach George Seifert led San Francisco to a Super Bowl. The 49ers destroyed the Broncos 55-10 in Super Bowl XXIV in Seifert’s first season. Montana also won his third and final Super Bowl MVP Award. Montana will go down as quite possibly the greatest Super Bowl quarterback of all time, going 4-0 in the big game. He also averaged 286 yards per game, had an 11:0 TD:INT ratio, 68 percent completion rate, and 9.4 yards per pass in those Super Bowls. In 1994, Seifert’s 49ers steamrolled the San Diego Chargers 49-26 in Super Bowl XXIX. That was Steve Young’s first Super Bowl title as the starting quarterback. He’s also one of only six players to ever win both NFL and Super Bowl MVP honors in the same season. The 49ers then experienced a bit of a Super Bowl drought. It wasn’t until the 2012 season that San Francisco made it back under second-year head coach Jim Harbaugh. John Harbaugh and the Ravens beat the 49ers 34-31 in Super Bowl XLVII that season. 49ers’ Super Bowl appearances by season: 1981: Win over the Bengals 1984: Win over the Dolphins 1988: Win over the Bengals 1989: Win over the Broncos 1994: Win over the Chargers 2012: Loss to the Ravens 2019: ?? against the Chiefs Super Bowl 54 should be one hell of a matchup. Both teams have been among the NFL’s elite all season, and both have the chance to add to their championship histories with a win.+++1
The 49ers can win the Super Bowl if George Kittle keeps destroying fools Kittle is one of the most exciting tight ends in the NFL, and he will be crucial to the 49ers’ Super Bowl. By James Brady@JamesBradySBN  Updated Jan 19, 2020, 10:20pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options 49ers TE George Kittle runs with the football in his right hand, with blue squiggly lines in the background George Kittle has been the 49ers’ best playmaker in 2019. The San Francisco 49ers are in the Super Bowl, where they’ll face the Kansas City Chiefs, and that’s thanks in large part to the play of George Kittle. The third-year tight end out of Iowa can do everything coach Kyle Shanahan asks of him, from being the team’s primary receiver to paving the way for one the league’s best rushing attacks. Kittle was used primarily as a blocker in college, but in the NFL he’s been one of, if not the best, tight end since he entered the league. Last year, Kittle broke the NFL single-season record for receiving yards by a tight end with 1,377 yards. This season, Kittle passed Rob Gronkowski and Mike Ditka for most receiving yards in a tight end’s first three seasons (2,780 career yards). Among tight ends with 50-plus targets this season, Kittle is third in yards per target (9.65), first in catch percentage (79.3), and seventh in yards per reception (12.16). He’s also third in receiving yards (888), trailing only Darren Waller and Travis Kelce. But he’s more than just a reliable receiver. He’s a player who defenses have to account for on every snap. He brutalizes linebackers in coverage, and he throws down multiple punishing blocks each week. At times, it felt like Kittle single-handedly carried the 49ers into the postseason. Below, we’re going to show you what makes him so good in the passing game, as well as some of his most disrespectful blocks. Kittle is as dangerous a receiver as a tight end can be Kittle has developed at a rapid pace, particularly as a pass catcher. Like many big-bodied receivers, Kittle is dangerous when he gets the ball and room to run, but he’s also a competent route runner who is more than capable of getting behind a defense. He makes his money rumbling through defenders and causing havoc, though every now and then he finds the hole in a defense, especially if you try to put a linebacker on him. Observe: That’s Kittle quickly running up the seam with nobody in the same zip code. The underneath linebacker was ostensibly in coverage, and even tried to jump and get his hand on the pass from Jimmy Garoppolo. He didn’t come close, though, and Kittle scored a 22-yard touchdown against the Browns. In fact, Kittle is so disruptive all over the field that the wreckage he creates can break open plays for those around him. We’ll talk about his work as a blocker a bit later, but first enjoy him beating a defender so bad that Marquise Goodwin caught the easiest touchdown of his life: That’s Kittle underneath, cutting across the middle. His cut was so sharp that William Jackson III fell down, which forced the single-high safety to shift his coverage to Kittle. That left Goodwin running wide open with nobody within five yards of him. But that’s not where Kittle does his most damage. He’s downright disrespectful to the players who try to tackle him. Five-yard gains become 10-yard gains. Let’s look at some examples. On this play, Kittle had a couple yards of separation from the defender, but what initially looked like a 10-to-12-yard pickup turned into a 36-yard gain as Kittle broke one tackle, stiff-armed another, and fell forward another couple yards when the Bengals finally brought him down. Such plays are a running theme for Kittle, who seemingly treats every tackle attempt like a life-or-death situation. Check another example below: First we have a great throw from Garoppolo under pressure, but after catching the pass at the 36-yard line, Kittle picked up another 30 yards after the catch, pinballing from one Rams defender to the next. He broke the tackle of the first one, stiff-armed the second one, spun away from the third one, and was finally brought down by a group of them. Kittle had a couple of those plays early in the season against the Bengals and Rams, but his most impressive one was more recent — against the Saints in Week 14. This was a fourth-and-2, with 39 seconds left and the game on the line. Garoppolo went to Kittle because he’s dependable underneath, and the short gain quickly turned into much more. The first tackler failed, and Kittle took the ball 39 yards. Two of the three Saints defenders who finally tackled him got a piece of his facemask, with one of the players literally swinging from it. A couple plays later, the 49ers kicked a field goal and beat the Saints on the back of that gain. It put San Francisco in position for the top seed in the NFC, and is certainly something the Saints will be thinking about if they run into the 49ers in the playoffs. Kittle is also a devastating blocker Kittle is also the best run blocker the 49ers have, which is saying something with guys like Joe Staley, Mike McGlinchey, and fullback Kyle Juszczyk on the roster. Kittle is particularly good moving sideline-to-sideline when he’s blocking and more often than not, he’s the one in motion pre-snap in Shanahan’s offense. His blocks are punishing above all else. Below, you can see a few examples of him destroying linebackers, something that appears to be a favorite pastime of his. That’s Kittle on the outside, blocking Ravens linebacker Jaylon Ferguson to create the hole for the running back to go through. Kittle kept his feet moving forward, while changing the levels of his arms throughout the block. He avoided holding, and used his entire body to push Ferguson far out of the play. There was another great example of Kittle’s blocking from that Ravens game: That’s Kittle on the right side, pushing Matthew Judon out to the right to create the lane for running back Raheem Mostert. It looks like Judon gave him more trouble than usual, but Kittle was actually feeding Judon all the rope he needed to twist and throw him off balance — which he did, as you can see Judon going to the ground shortly after Mostert passed him. One other huge block really stood from this year, and it came against the always-solid Luke Kuechly of the Panthers: Kuechly (No. 59) is in the middle of the play. He’s the player assigned to Tevin Coleman here, but as he’s trying to get outside to make a stop before Coleman can get around the edge, Kittle is in his face. While Kuechly tried hard to get around Kittle,the tight end kept his feet moving and eventually threw Kuechly to the ground right in front of Coleman, who cut away and picked up a chunk of yardage on the play. Most recently, Kittle was seen dealing a pancake block to Ricardo Allen against the Falcons. But more than that, he appeared to be laughing hard as he did it. No, seriously: Kevin Jones   @Mr_KevinJones George Kittle was laughing as he pancaked a Falcons defender Embedded video 16.4K 2:06 PM - Dec 15, 2019 Twitter Ads info and privacy 2,894 people are talking about this That block led to a 49ers touchdown, and is perfectly emblematic of Kittle’s approach to football. What Kittle did down the stretch In a close game against the rival Rams in Week 16, Kittle caught a crucial touchdown and was the team’s leaving receiver, with five receptions for 79 yards plus the score. The 49ers beat the Rams, 34-31, keeping their hopes for the top seed alive. He was also instrumental in the team’s top seed-clinching Week 17 win over the Seahawks, catching seven passes for 86 yards in the 26-21 win. That gave the 49ers a first-round bye in the postseason. In the playoffs, Kittle’s presence isn’t felt in the box score — only four receptions for 35 yards between the 49ers’ two wins, but that doesn’t tell the whole story. Kittle has been laying devastating blocks all over the place, and especially so in the 49ers’ 37-20 win over the Packers in the NFC Championship. In that game, Raheem Mostert rushed for over 200 yards and four touchdowns, and he was often running right behind Kittle (and fullback Kyle Juszczyk). He was also a big factor blocking in the Divisional Round against the Vikings: Geoff Schwartz   @geoffschwartz George Kittle's run blocking technique is better than some  offensive lineman. Look at this block. -Runs off the ball -Second step contact -hands inside, elbows in -hat tight outside -Triple extension -finish @49ers Embedded video 7,871 7:01 AM - Jan 12, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 1,250 people are talking about this Kittle was a fifth-round pick in 2017, meaning he is only signed through the 2020 season. He won’t ever sniff free agency, however. He’s going to be a fixture of the 49ers’ offense so long as they can keep him around. More immediately is what Kittle means to San Francisco’s presence in the playoffs. He kept on being great down the stretch and into the actual playoff games. He’s a big reason the 49ers made it to the Super Bowl. He is a complete tight end who can be counted on in the clutch to make a big, rumbling passing play or a punishing run block to spring a teammate. He’s the total package, and when you hear his name in the Super Bowl, you’ll know why.+++1
4 questions that will define a Chiefs-49ers Super Bowl 54 19 Can the Chiefs protect Patrick Mahomes? Will the 49ers finally have to throw the ball? By Christian D'Andrea@TrainIsland  Jan 19, 2020, 10:00pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options AFC Championship - Tennessee Titans v Kansas City Chiefs Photo by Tom Pennington/Getty Images One of the premier football teams of the 1960s will take on one of the best teams of the 1980s in the first Super Bowl of the 2020s. Welcome to Super Bowl 54 between the Kansas City Chiefs and the San Francisco 49ers. The Chiefs and 49ers each gave their home crowds a parting gift with double-digit victories in their respective conference championship games. Kansas City rode another big comeback from Patrick Mahomes, who erased an early 17-7 deficit to stop the Titans’ Cinderella run dead in its tracks. San Francisco only needed to throw the ball eight times to beat the Packers because Raheem Mostert decided to do everything himself. His 220 rushing yards were the second-most in NFL playoff history. Those wins were emphatic reminders these two teams were the best each conference had to offer. Still, squaring two dominant teams against each other will only raise more questions in the two weeks leading up to the Super Bowl. Here’s what sticks out the most in the aftermath of Sunday’s conference championships. 1. Patrick Mahomes’ first Super Bowl will come against the NFC’s top defense Mahomes dispatched the Texans and Titans with relative ease. In two postseason games, he’s thrown for 615 yards and eight touchdowns — all while erasing two different double-digit deficits. These are very Patrick Mahomes numbers, but they came against two teams that ranked 21st (Tennessee) and 27th (Houston) in Football Outsiders’ passing defense efficiency metric (DVOA). At Super Bowl 54, he’ll stare down a defense that ranked second in that same metric. The Niners’ defense limited the Packers and two-time MVP Aaron Rodgers early in a scoreless first half before eventually cracking under the pressure of Green Bay’s pass-heavy comeback effort in a 37-20 win. Davante Adams played Green Bay’s hero with an eight-catch, 160-yard, two-touchdown performance in a Divisional Round win over the Seahawks. All-Pro cornerback Richard Sherman was hot and cold on him in coverage Sunday night, sticking to him early in coverage but ultimately getting roasted on a 65-yard deep ball in the fourth quarter. NFL   @NFL .@AaronRodgers12 goes DEEP!@Tae15Adams on the other end for 65 yards! #GoPackGo #NFLPlayoffs  : #GBvsSF on FOX  : NFL app // Yahoo Sports app Watch free on mobile: http://bit.ly/2G0wHZF Embedded video 1,144 6:13 PM - Jan 19, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 270 people are talking about this Adams finished his day with nine catches (on 10 targets) for 138 yards, though not all those catches came with Sherman acting as his shadow. What can Tyreek Hill do in a similar situation in the Super Bowl? How about Travis Kelce? 2. Can the Chiefs’ offensive line keep Mahomes comfortable? Kansas City’s offensive line ranked just 14th in the league in pass block win rate this season, per ESPN’s advanced stats. That typically didn’t matter thanks to Mahomes’ ability to improvise both in and out of the pocket. He’s always been a wizard when it comes to buying time in the pocket, typically leading to big gains to streaking targets downfield or, as we saw Sunday, seemingly effortless jaunts to the end zone. Kansas City Chiefs   @Chiefs Big-time players make big-time plays in big-time games   Embedded video 28.7K 1:30 PM - Jan 19, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 8,044 people are talking about this Mahomes’ ability to move has made him the Chiefs’ leading rusher this postseason, but he’s going to be chased by a higher-caliber pass rush in Super Bowl 54. The Niners ranked second in the league in sack rate last season by dragging down opposing QBs on nearly nine percent of their dropbacks. Four different players — Arik Armstead, Nick Bosa, Dee Ford, and DeForest Buckner — had at least 6.5 sacks in the regular season. Mahomes’ magic is a function of the time he creates for his targets to find room downfield. San Francisco has the chops to cut down those scrambles and keep the Chiefs from burning them with a lineup of off-script improvisations that turn into massive gains. 3. Can Raheem Mostert do what Derrick Henry couldn’t? A big part of San Francisco’s success this postseason has been a willingness to completely shut down its passing game in favor of a steady diet of runs. In the Divisional Round, head coach Kyle Shanahan dialed up 12 straight running plays to grind the Vikings into dust. He went back for more against the Packers, turning a short field into a 37-yard touchdown drive without a single Jimmy Garoppolo dropback in second quarter. In all, Shanahan called up 32 more runs than passes (40 to eight) in a blowout win over Green Bay. The star of that show was Mostert, who set an NFL record by being the first player in league history to have 150+ rushing yards and three touchdowns in the first half of any playoff game. He may have to be ready for another big turn in Miami, as Tevin Coleman had to be carted off the field in the first quarter after suffering an arm injury. An extended absence from Coleman could hand the reins of the rushing offense to Mostert and Matt Breida, two complementary backs who’ve shined in stretches. They’ll have to take on a Chiefs defense that held NFL rushing leader Derrick Henry to his least efficient outing (3.7 yards per carry) since Week 7. Kansas City limited the Titans’ star tailback by stacking its defense up at the line of scrimmage and trusting its defensive backs in man coverage with a lone deep safety behind them. Doing so again could keep Mostert from sustaining this breakout — but it could also leave massive gaps for Jimmy Garoppolo to exploit. 4. What will Jimmy Garoppolo bring to the table? Garoppolo’s had a pretty easy postseason so far. He’s been fortunate enough to largely step back and let a smothering defense and clock-churning rushing game carry his team to the Super Bowl. After throwing the ball a shade under 30 times per game in the regular season, he’s thrown 27 total passes in two playoff wins for the Niners. He’s been mostly fine in those situations — 17 of 27, one touchdown, one interception, 208 yards — but those are numbers befitting a 1970s quarterback rather than one taking the field in 2020. Garoppolo learned the NFL quarterbacking game under Tom Brady, who could typically turn to cheat code tight end Rob Gronkowski when he needed a clutch play. The young veteran will have his own game-breaker in at tight end George Kittle. Kittle was the Niners’ security blanket in third-down situations late, and while he’s had only four receptions in the playoffs he remains an oft-unstoppable monster once he gathers some momentum downfield. Emmanuel Sanders adds a pair of reliable hands in the middle of the field. Deebo Samuel has proven to be a versatile playmaker Shanahan can deploy from anywhere in his lineup. Garoppolo won’t be hurting for weapons, especially if Mostert can loosen up that Kansas City secondary with some big runs. It’s still fair to wonder how Garoppolo will react if asked to dial his passing back to regular season levels. The former Patriot had some turnover issues where dropping linebackers sloughed into his blind spot downfield, creating interception opportunities. It could only take one of those mistakes to derail the Niners’ Super Bowl bid. There’s still plenty of time for each team to address these issues. The Chiefs will have two weeks to prepare for the San Francisco pass rush. Garoppolo will have 14 days to digest film and figure out which Kansas City weak spots he can exploit. But in the afterglow of two conference championship wins, these are the questions that may define who hoists the Lombardi Trophy on Feb. 2, and who trudges through a confetti shower and into a sad locker room.+++1
Boyz II Men, longtime 49ers fans (?!), gave us an absolutely dazzling national anthem The group’s rendition of the national anthem was straight fire. By Morgan Moriarty@Morgan_Moriarty  Jan 19, 2020, 7:28pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options NFL: NFC Championship-Green Bay Packers at San Francisco 49ers Kelley L Cox-USA TODAY Sports Before Sunday’s Packers-49ers NFC Championship Game, R&B/hip-hop group Boyz II Men performed the national anthem at Levi’s Stadium. The performance itself was absolutely phenomenal, and it made the otherwise bland song (don’t @ me) pop: FOX Sports MX   @FOXSportsMX   AND THE HOME OF THE BRAVE   #NFLxFOX Boyz II Men con la emotiva interpretación del himno nacional de los Estados Unidos de América en el Levi's Stadium de Santa Clara, California 🇺🇸  🇺🇸  🇺🇸  🇺🇸  🇺🇸 Embedded video 59 3:39 PM - Jan 19, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 25 people are talking about this While the group is originally from Philadelphia, Boyz II Men has performed the song before 49ers home games in the past. So why is the group seemingly San Francisco fans if they’re from Philly, you’re probably wondering? Apparently it all stems from one of the group’s founding members, Nate Morris, and his experience with an elementary school bully. “As a kid, when I was 6 or 7 years old, there was this bully who used to beat me up all the time,” Morris said back in 2013 via the Las Vegas Sun. “One day, he came to school, and he was all mad. Really, really upset. I asked one of my friends why he was so pissed off, and he said, ‘The Cowboys had a game last night, and they lost.’ ” Morris asked, “Who’d they play?” His friend said, “They played the Niners.” “I said, ‘OK, I’m jumping over there,’ ” Morris said. “I’ve been a Niner fan ever since.” In fact, the band once had a bet with Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers for him to wear a 49ers jersey. In 2012, TMZ reported that the QB had to wear a San Francisco jersey to media availability after Rodgers asked the group to sing the national anthem at Lambeau Field. The bet was that if the 49ers defeated the Packers in Week 1, then Rodgers would have to don the jersey. The 49ers won 30-22, but apparently Rodgers never went through with it in the end, though. Boyz II Men   @BoyzIIMen Pressing the jersey now! RT @shawnstockman And that should be that for the Packer/ 9er game. Looks like a jersey will be worn!! 5 3:29 PM - Sep 9, 2012 Twitter Ads info and privacy 21 people are talking about this If the 49ers defeat Green Bay and make it to the Super Bowl to face the Kansas City Chiefs, one might guess Boyz II Men might make the trip down to Miami. Demi Lovato is singing the anthem, but the group can definitely still go as fans.+++1
Here’s why everyone is talking about Mike Vrabel’s penis 9 Mike Vrabel offered up his package in exchange for a Super Bowl win before the season. About that ... By James Brady@JamesBradySBN  Updated Jan 19, 2020, 6:20pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options NFL: AFC Championship-Tennessee Titans at Kansas City Chiefs Denny Medley-USA TODAY Sports The Kansas City Chiefs crushed the Tennessee Titans’ Super Bowl hopes on Sunday with their 35-24 win in the AFC Championship. Now we have to turn the conversation to Mike Vrabel’s genitalia. If you’re confused by that, well, here’s why. Vrabel made headlines this offseason when he claimed he would sacrifice his package if it meant winning the Super Bowl. No, really. Vrabel appeared on the Bussin’ with the Boys podcast, on which Titans offensive lineman Taylor Lewan is a host. Lewan asked Vrabel if he would give up his junk for a Super Bowl and the second-year Titans coach — who won three Super Bowls as a player, but none as a coach — responded in the affirmative. He also noted that he’s been married for 20 years, which contributed to the decision. The full quote was transcribed by Paul Kuharsky here, and you can see it below: Lewan: Matt Neely (an assistant for the show) said he would cut off his dick for a, uno, Super Bowl, and I said, No I would not do that. Would you cut your dick off for a Super Bowl? Vrabel: Been married 20 years. Yeah, probably. Lewan: You’ve got three?! Vrabel: As a player.... You guys will be married for 20 years one day. You won’t need it. Lewan: If you come home with a bag of ice, and Jen is like ‘Oh honey what did you do.’ I cut …my dick off, we’re gonna win a Super Bowl, she’d be like “eh,” or would she be upset? Vrabel: She’d be like do you want me to do it? Do you want to do it now? Vrabel’s wife did indeed offer to help and confirmed as much on Twitter: jen @JenVrabel1 Not mad at all, I actually offered to help with the process. https://twitter.com/LeBatardShow/status/1149707039054020613 … Dan Le Batard Show   @LeBatardShow #poll Is Mike Vrabel's wife mad at him for saying he would cut off his bleep for a Super Bowl win as a coach? -Garemy 25.5K 2:49 PM - Jul 12, 2019 · Stateline, NV Twitter Ads info and privacy 2,630 people are talking about this Lewan also greeted Vrabel after the game and referenced the situation, telling him that “that piece is coming off.” I cannot make this stuff up. Will Brinson   @WillBrinson Taylor Lewan greeted Mike Vrabel postgame with "that piece is coming, that PIECE IS COMING OFF!"Embedded video 1,740 8:53 PM - Jan 11, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 291 people are talking about this Now, it’s certainly worth noting that Vrabel said he would do it if it meant his team would win, not that he would do it if his team won. But still, he did offer one (1) dick in exchange for one (1) Super Bowl win, so there’s that. That DOES invite the possibility that he’s already ... you know, cut it off. He might have already made the deal with the devil (or whoever it is you do these kinds of deals with). Here’s the thing (no, not that thing): the Titans were just one win away from playing in the Super Bowl. When Vrabel first gave us this quote, Marcus Mariota was his starting quarterback and Tennessee had 60/1 odds to make the Super Bowl, per Draft Kings. Ryan Tannehill, Derrick Henry, and a stout defense led them to postseason wins over Tom Brady’s Patriots and Lamar Jackson’s Ravens. They hung tough early against the Chiefs, but Kansas City was just too much for them. For now, it appears as though no one will be calling for Vrabel’s ... head this season. As long as Vrabel’s teams make the postseason though, we’ll indubitably be discussing this offer he agreed to.+++1
10 unwritten rules for not screwing up your NFL jersey number 37 “It’s the 10 jersey commandments” — The Notorious B.I.G. By Charles McDonald@FourVerts  May 14, 2019, 11:00am EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Don’t listen to anyone who says film, stats, and player tracking data are the keys to evaluating football players. Those things all matter, but they take a backseat to one aspect of the NFL that reigns above all else: jersey numbers. A bad jersey number can ruin a career before it gets started. No one is going to take the camp tryout running back wearing No. 47 seriously — he lost before he even had a chance to get going. Now if he can grab No. 27? He can catch the eye of his coach. The NFL legislates which numbers different positions can wear — it’s under Rule 5, Section 1, Article 2 in the rulebook — but players still have enough choices to pick the right number. Since jersey numbers are so vital to a player’s success, we decided to piece together the 10 commandments of NFL jerseys. 1. 46 is not an acceptable defensive back number by any stretch This should be self-explanatory, but someone forgot to tell Detroit Lions rookie cornerback Amani Oruwariye. The fifth-round pick is currently wearing No. 46. For the sake of his future, he better change his jersey number after training camp cuts: Trevor Sikkema   @TampaBayTre OH NO AMANI PLS NO View image on Twitter 166 7:22 AM - May 10, 2019 Twitter Ads info and privacy 34 people are talking about this It happens to be true that 46 is only an acceptable number for fullbacks, long snappers, and linebackers who primarily play special teams. Not a cornerback looking to break into the starting lineup. 2. Steer clear of the 60s if you’re a defensive lineman Defensive linemen are supposed to be the sleeker, faster version of offensive linemen. There’s no series of numbers that weighs down players more than the 60s. Think about it. When was the last time you saw a game-wrecking defensive lineman wearing No. 64? The most recent to put together a decent season was Kerry Hyder, who somehow managed to rack up eight sacks with the Lions in 2016 while repping No. 61. Hyder is an outlier here, though. He might have been able to double that output if he had worn No. 91 instead. He had the chance for a do-over when he joined the Dallas Cowboys this offseason, but unfortunately, his new jersey is No. 62. 3. Contrary to what traditionalists say, 10s > 80s for receivers Receivers rocking numbers in the 80s used to be the trend — Hall of Famers Jerry Rice, Randy Moss, and Terrell Owens all fell into that group. But it’s not as common today. Now, the best wide receivers are straying away from the 80s toward jerseys in the 10s. Nine of the top 10 wide receivers last season had a jersey number from 10-19. That includes Julio Jones, JuJu Smith-Schuster, Mike Evans, and DeAndre Hopkins. The only one who didn’t was Antonio Brown. That sounds like correlation to me. NFL: Cincinnati Bengals at Atlanta Falcons Jason Getz-USA TODAY Sports Since 2014, there have been 22 wide receivers drafted in the first round. Only three of them — Amari Cooper, Corey Davis, and Mike Williams — have opted for jerseys in the 80s. It’s also worth noting that Cooper switched to No. 19 after he was traded to Dallas, where he’s been lights out. 4. Linebackers can only wear jersey numbers in the 40s if they’re fast enough In the past few years, quite a few rookie linebackers have been picking numbers in the 40s instead of the 50s as they enter the league. Jarrad Davis, Deion Jones, Devin White, and Patrick Onwuasor are all recent examples. While it doesn’t fit for every linebacker, it works for them because they’re capable of making explosive plays all over the field. Linebackers wearing 40 need to be fast. It doesn’t make sense on a lumbering run stopper. The one exception: No. 46, which we already covered. 5. Running backs should avoid the number 39 Sure, Steven Jackson and Willie Parker were great players, but they had to overcome the number 39, which just screams plodding, slow running back. Just look how bulky this jersey appears: San Francisco 49ers v St. Louis Rams Photo by David Welker/Getty Images A running back who wears No. 39 is liable for a 14-carry, 27-yard kind of game — an ugly stat line for an ugly number. 6. There is no such thing as a bad jersey number in the 90s Nos. 90-99 are all money, especially for defensive linemen and linebackers rushing off the edge, like DeMarcus Ware or T.J. Watt. Linebackers who play off the ball can make it work too, but the player has to be a complete badass — think peak Jamie Collins. NFL: Houston Texans at New England Patriots Winslow Townson-USA TODAY Sports 7. All the numbers in the 20s are good money too Whether it’s running back or defensive back, players can never go wrong picking a number in the 20s. There’s something about the aesthetic value of the “2” goes well with every other digit. Unlike 46 or 39, numbers that start with a “2” make players appear more lightweight and faster. Giants rookie cornerback Deandre Baker initially started off with 35, but quickly changed to 27 by the end of rookie minicamp — he’ll be better off for it. 8. Just about every quarterback number is good except for “8” Name one quarterback who has worn No. 8 since Steve Young who has any sort of swagger. Trent Dilfer. Sam Bradford. Kirk Cousins. It’s impossible. Don’t even try. 9. 50-55 is the sweet spot for jersey numbers in the 50s Every number between 50 and 55 looks good, whether it’s a beast middle linebacker, an explosive edge rusher, or a stalwart center. No. 52 is the peak of this jersey number range. Ray Lewis rocked 52 all the way to a Hall of Fame career. Khalil Mack, another player who wears 52, is well on his way there if he can stay healthy. NFL: Chicago Bears at Minnesota Vikings Brace Hemmelgarn-USA TODAY Sports 10. Truth be told, any jersey number can be great if the player wearing it is great Alvin Kamara took flak for going with No. 41 when he got the league. It’s not really a number that fits an elusive, slashing running back. Usually bulldozing fullbacks like Lorenzo Neal are the offensive players who wear 41. Now it’s hard to imagine anything else on him. He’s awesome, and and the number became awesome along with him. NFL: NFC Championship Game-Los Angeles Rams at New Orleans Saints Derick E. Hingle-USA TODAY Sports Ravens cornerback Marlon Humphrey originally wore No. 29, but gave it up to his new teammate Earl Thomas. This year he’s going to try to bring style to No. 44 — and as one of the best players in the league at his position, he can do it. At the end of the day, any jersey number can be made cool if the player wearing it balls out. Except No. 46. That’s just a death sentence.+++1
NFL pressure index: Who needs a win the most on Conference Championship Weekend? 17 Retired NFL lineman Geoff Schwartz ranks which players, coaches, and front offices are feeling the heat this weekend. By Geoff Schwartz  Jan 17, 2020, 4:54pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Kansas City Chiefs v&nbsp;New England Patriots Photo by Maddie Meyer/Getty Images The NFL is a “what can you do for me now league,” as it’s ever changing by the week, month, and year. Just look at the four teams playing in this year’s Conference Championship Round. Only one of the four, the Chiefs, were even in the playoffs last season. There’s always pressure to win these games now, because your team might not get back here. So who’s under the most pressure this weekend? Here’s how I rank them: 1a. Andy Reid The “snowplow parent” is defined as a person who constantly forces obstacles out of their kids’ paths. And this season, the NFL is the snowplow parent for the Chiefs. The Chiefs entered the final week of the season looking at the No. 3 seed — one home game in the Wild Card Round and then facing the gauntlet of having to beat the Patriots and Ravens on the road to make the Super Bowl. Instead, the Patriots lost in Week 17 to the Dolphins at home, giving the Chiefs the second seed and a bye in the playoffs. Then, rather than having to play the Patriots, the Chiefs ended up with the Texans in the Divisional Round. The Chiefs played poorly to start, got down 24-0, and then outscored the Texans 51-7 the rest of the way. They won 51-31. And with that win, coupled with the Titans upsetting the Ravens, the Chiefs get to host a second straight AFC Championship Game. This feels like the Chiefs’ time to win the conference. The Titans are hot, but they are still more than a touchdown underdog and aren’t the better team. The Chiefs have the best player on the planet, Patrick Mahomes, who’s healthy and looks primed for a huge game on Sunday. Their defense has improved throughout the season. They should win. Unfortunately, these conference championship games haven’t been so friendly to Chiefs head coach Andy Reid. In his time with the Chiefs and Eagles, he’s 1-5 in this round AND has an all-time record of 1-8 against the Titans. Both trends will need to change in order for Reid to get this win. While the Chiefs might not lose at all because of coaching, the blame still goes to the head coach. And lastly, on a personal note, Andy Reid is awesome. I think he needs a Super Bowl win to cement his legacy and so everyone will get off his back. Of course I’m rooting for the Chiefs because of family ties, but I’m also rooting for Reid. 1b. The Chiefs’ roster building Mahomes is getting a new contract this offseason. It could be more than $40 million per year. When that happens, the roster will take a hit. The Chiefs can’t afford everyone on their roster. Do they also pay Chris Jones, who is set to be a free agent? What happens to other players who’ve already been paid? Do they get cut? Do the Chiefs have enough money to spend in free agency? These are all issues that will need to be figured out in the offseason, but it could close their Super Bowl window. 2. Aaron Rodgers According to most people who don’t have a Packers avatar as their Twitter profile photo, Rodgers’ career has been on the decline. Even with the Packers making it this far in the playoffs, people are doubting if the 36-year-old Rodgers still has “it.” Well, there’s no better way to prove everyone wrong than by advancing to the Super Bowl in Miami. Rodgers has a chance to shut his doubters up with a win on Sunday in San Francisco against an elite defense. Also, being able to add another Super Bowl will further cement his legacy as one of the best quarterbacks of all time. However, if he does not play well, it will add more fuel to the fire that’s he’s no longer the guy who can lead the Packers to the promised land. 3. The Titans’ front office If the Chiefs lose, they still have Mahomes for 15 more years. The Titans don’t have Ryan Tannehill or Derrick Henry under contract after this season. And even if they did, it would be remarkably rare for Tannehill to keep this play up next season. History also continues to show that paying top dollar for a running back, like Henry, is not the best for roster building. So, if the Titans lose this weekend, do they attempt to run it back next season? It just feels like they need to strike while the iron is hot this season. 4. NFL officiating No matter what happens on the field Sunday, the officiating will have a spotlight on it. Last season, a missed pass interference call in the Saints-Rams NFC Championship Game led to a major overhaul in the replay review system. It allowed pass interference to be reviewed, which hasn’t gone over so well. There’s probably going to be a moment this weekend that makes fans way too angry. The officials just need to make sure they don’t have too many of those moments. Please let this weekend be about the players and not the officiating. 5. Jimmy Garoppolo There’s a huge gap between Nos. 4 and 5 for me. I added Garoppolo on here to basically say that he’s not under much pressure. This is the first season he’s has been fully healthy in a 49ers uniform and they went 13-3. He’s only going to keep getting better. The Niners have shown an amazing ability to draft, sign, and develop players, so I trust John Lynch to continue to improve the roster. If the Niners lose, they can easily be back here next season. The questions about Garoppolo being “the guy” will continue to be asked, even though he continues to prove he can handle the moment.+++1
Oregon women’s basketball really beat Team USA’s roster of WNBA stars 2 After a preseason win over the national team, the Ducks’ hype is getting out of control. By Matt Ellentuck@mellentuck  Nov 11, 2019, 6:07pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options The University of Oregon women’s basketball team was terrifying even before the season began, and one exhibition game in, they’re feared that much more. That’s what happens when the No. 1 ranked team in college basketball beats Team USA. Yeah, like the national team. The Ducks beat Team USA, 93-86, on their home floor to open an already ridiculously hyped year. It’s only the second time a college has knocked off Team USA dating back to 1999, when Tennessee, led by Kara Lawson and Tamika Catchings, won by a point. The Ducks did it comfortably. The three stars who led Oregon to a Final Four trip last year, Sabrina Ionescu, Satou Sabally and Ruthy Hebard, dominated against some of the best players in the world. The trio combined for 73 points on 52 shots with 21 rebounds and nine assists. The Ducks are definitely for real. Sheesh. Why is Oregon playing against Team USA anyway? This year, on the road to the 2020 Olympics, Team USA is playing against a handful of colleges as a way to boost viewership, gain fans, and train as a unit. They played four games in the fall against Stanford, Texas A&M, Oregon State, and Oregon. (They won the first three.) In late Jan. and early Feb., they’re slated to play UConn and Louisville. Team USA lost to a college team! Do they suck? No. Definitely no. The U.S. women have won gold at every Olympics since 1996, and that streak isn’t expected to end in 2020. Team USA lost to Oregon in part because the Ducks have three first-round picks on their roster. Ionescu is so good she’s already played in exhibitions for the national team. Team USA also wasn’t even close to full strength against the Ducks. Elena Delle Donne is the best player in the world, and she’s resting a back injury suffered while winning the WNBA Finals. Breanna Stewart was the MVP before her, and she’s also sidelined to an Achilles tear. A’ja Wilson, Rookie of the Year two seasons ago, missed the game for personal reasons. Brittney Griner isn’t with the team yet. Maya Moore, one of the world’s best scorers, took a year off from basketball. And four of the 11 players who played in the game against Oregon missed all or most of the WNBA season that ended four weeks ago, including Layshia Clarendon (ankle surgery, did not play in October’s WNBA Finals), Skylar Diggins-Smith (missed entire season after giving birth six months ago), Diana Taurasi (missed 29 of 35 to back injuries), and Sue Bird (missed entire season after knee scope.) Still, Oregon beating a team of pros is an incredible feat. Team USA did play two healthy former MVPs in Sylvia Fowles and Nneka Ogwumike and two other All-Stars from this past season. So how did Oregon win? The most impressive part of the Ducks’ win is that they stayed in the game even when Ionescu was a non-factor. She had just five first-half points as Team USA double-teamed and trapped the 5’10 do-it-all point guard into giving the ball up. Sabally and Hebard shouldered the scoring load until Ionescu’s 20-point third-quarter explosion (which we’ll get to in a minute.) Hebard, at just 6’4, crashed the boards next to 6’6 Fowles and Ogwumike. She came up with 11, including four on the offensive end. She cleaned up misses and caught pocket passes in the pick-and-roll for 18 points on 9-of-14 shooting, and was key on the defensive end, too. Ben Dull @ben_dull Good to see an early drive like this from Ruthy Hebard in this matchup with Syl Embedded video 4 4:20 PM - Nov 9, 2019 Twitter Ads info and privacy See Ben Dull's other Tweets Sabally, also 6’4, was the inside-out scoring savant that’s brought her name into the WNBA lottery pick discussion. She played physically in the post against Napheesa Collier, blew by Seimone Augustus off-the-dribble, and even iced a step-back three just to fully flaunt her well-rounded game. She’s a star, and finished with 25 points on 18 shots, including 3-of-7 from deep. And then there’s Ionescu, who will almost definitely go No. 1 in April’s draft. When the triple-double machine got loose, she outshined Taurasi and Bird around the perimeter, draining pro-ranged threes, none more ridiculous than this one near the logo. Nick Niendorf @niendorf21 OH MY GOD SABRINA IONESCU Embedded video 1,248 5:29 PM - Nov 9, 2019 Twitter Ads info and privacy 301 people are talking about this Ionescu was everything in the second half of the game. She finished with 30 points on 20 shots, and scored 20 in the third quarter alone. She shot 7-of-9, draining triples, driving to the bucket willingly and drawing contact all across the floor. Ionescu is strong, she’s smart, and she’s creative off-the-dribble. She had seven assists to one turnover despite being the center of the defensive attention from multiple Hall of Famers-to be. Oregon women’s basketball is must-watch TV Appreciate this team right now as the season is just about to begin, because you won’t see another like it any time soon. They’re dominant, star-studded and play so well together. Ionescu can drive, Sabally can shoot, and Hebard’s there to clean up the boards. The Ducks have a ridiculous one-two-three punch that’s sure to make the highlight reel all season long, and will be the favorite to cut down the nets in April.+++1
The Mystics are a WNBA champion built to last 22 Washington can be the WNBA’s next dynasty. By Matt Ellentuck@mellentuck  Oct 11, 2019, 11:21am EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options A collage of Mystics stars (from left to right): Emma Meesseman, Elena Delle Donne, head coach Mike Thibault. The Mystics built a championship team with Elena Delle Donne as the centerpiece. WASHINGTON, D.C. — Aerial Powers wanted to be traded. It was July 2018, and despite playing for a Dallas Wings team loaded with talent like All-Stars Liz Cambage and Skylar Diggins-Smith, Powers wasn’t having fun. Her team was middling around .500, she felt pressured to score on every possession, and in her third season in the league, the No. 5 pick in the draft wasn’t improving. “The system we played in Dallas,” Powers said, “It felt like if you got the ball, you had to score or you weren’t going to get the ball back. There was no ball movement.” The stagnation held Powers to shoot a career-low 18 percent from three-point range and score just six points per game in her final half-season in Dallas. The Washington Mystics swooped in to save her. Powers fit the mold of every non-Elena Delle Donne or Kristi Toliver piece the franchise has embraced; someone under-appreciated, overlooked and misused. “We thought some of the offensive stuff efficiency-wise was because Dallas kind of ran loose,” Mystics assistant coach Eric Thibault said. “We thought putting her into our system, it’d be a little more obvious where the shots came from.” Playing in the Mystics’ pace-and-space spread, Powers became an electrifying spark off the bench. Always one of the most athletic players in the W, Powers’ speed and shot-making ability suddenly became that much more dangerous playing alongside Washington’s shooters. Even when she struggled, she found a team that would build her up rather than tear her down. This is the type of confidence the Mystics instilled in their entire roster, from the biggest star in the sport to the supporting cast off the bench. “The team all gets along,” Powers said. “There’s no drama. Everybody appreciates each other. If someone takes a shot and misses, it’s all good. We’re a mature team. We are taking good shots. It’s not like everybody’s going one-on-one all the time like it was in Dallas.” “The stat sheet, throw that thing away. Nobody cares.” — Delle Donne Powers was in the locker room Thursday night popping a bottle of pineapple Ciroc after the Mystics had finally made good on their season-long goal. Washington was the best team in the W all year. This playoff run always felt like it needed to end in a championship, or it was a bust. With a decisive 89-78 Game 5 win over the Connecticut Sun, it finally happened. In the middle of the party, Powers caught the attention of the closest rolling video camera. Her signature high-bun still in tact, she made clear contact with the lens. “Thank you Dallas,” she said. “I appreciate you, Greg [Bibb, the team’s president and CEO] for trading me. This has been the best experience, and I don’t think I woulda got it with y’all, so thanks.” The root of the Mystics’ 2019 success starts at the top. Head coach and general manager Mike Thibault is equal parts a basketball savant and player’s coach. He drafted his team’s Finals MVP, Emma Meesseman, with the No. 19 pick. He selected an All-Defensive guard from little-known St. Joe’s in Natasha Cloud at No. 15, and picked Ariel Atkins, a talent who wasn’t even invited to the draft, at No. 7. But his most crowning accomplishment is bringing D.C.’s most talented basketball player ever, Delle Donne, to the Mystics via trade in 2017. The star wanted to move closer to her home in Delaware, and of course, she wanted a ring. But she wanted to do it in an authentically Delle Donne way. The 6’5 unicorn is as soft-spoken and humble as the face of a sports league can get. “So many other coaches I’ve had said ‘you have to be meaner’ or ‘you need to yell at your teammates,’” Delle Donne said. “But [Thibault] said the exact opposite. He’s like ‘the best leader you can be is when you’re true to yourself.’ Whatever you’re comfortable being, be that for your team. That’s been a game-changer for me.” For her Mystics teammates, Delle Donne has been the premier role model. In interviews, she’s quick to talk about how the team needs LaToya Sanders’ work on the boards, and how Meesseman was the missing piece the Mystics needed to win this championship. There’s a reason all season long, the Mystics’ locker room echoed a “Bahhh” sound like a goat whenever Delle Donne’s name was mentioned. Cloud even made her own sweatshirt to personally campaign for her MVP run. “I don’t need to be the bad cop and cuss my teammates out,” Delle Donne said. “That’s not what I’m about.” “If Elena was an asshole, everybody would still respect her because she’s that good,” Eric Thibault said. “But she doesn’t act that way. And because of that, nobody else acts that way. Why would you?” “If Elena was an asshole, everybody would still respect her because she’s that good.” In Game 5, Delle Donne led her team to victory with 21 points and nine rebounds despite a harrowing list of injuries. She was a fraction of herself, only able to move with the ball in straight lines, missing the lateral spring that typically moves her past defenders. Delle Donne had a mask over the nose she broke in June, a brace on the knee she deeply bruised in last season’s playoffs, and she was playing through a back injury that kept her out of all but three minutes of Game 2. For the last week, she’d claimed to have a herniated disc in her back. But in the postgame press conference, Cloud went out of her way to “drop a bomb” — Delle Donne had actually herniated three. “It’s important because when you’re talking about playing for the players to the left and to the right of you and being a leader on this team and pushing through to win us a championship,” Cloud said, “That’s a huge testament to her.” Despite Delle Donne’s greatness in her first championship win, she wasn’t named Finals MVP. The honor went to Meesseman, who scored 22 points and dominated the Sun on fading hooks in the low block. “When you went down with a herniated disc, Emma put the team on her back,” a reporter told Delle Donne after the game. “Correction,” Delle Donne interjected. “Emma put the team on her back in the first series, and she kept it rolling.” 2019 WNBA Finals - Game Five Photo by Rob Carr/Getty Images The Mystics were tested to their limit across this five-game series with a rugged Connecticut Sun team. Alyssa Thomas was a bulldozer Washington never learned how to contain, Jonquel Jones was a nightly threat on the boards, Shekinna Stricklen was a flamethrower from deep and Courtney Williams’ mid-range prowess caught the Mystics offguard. In Game 5, it looked like the Sun had cracked their code for good, leading by nine points with six minutes to play in the third quarter. A chess match all series, Curt Miller’s group threw Thibault’s into a tizzy, using Williams as a roaming defender. The Mystics were turnover prone, and their once-electric offense was reduced to iso-ball. Their record-setting offense only scored four shots from deep-ball range on 19 tries. But the Mystics’ greatness is more than their offensive system. Washington works to perfection as a team, but its individual talent can overwhelm, too. Each player in their rotation is empowered to take over a game when the time calls. “No one on this team gives a crap about getting credit,” Delle Donne said. “Like the stat sheet, throw that thing away. Nobody cares.” Sometimes it’s Cloud whose number is called. Most times it’s Delle Donne. On Thursday night, it was all Meesseman, who finished with 22 points on 13 shots. The Belgian star cooked any defender thrown on her with an array of footwork so confounding it looked like she traveled. During her 11-point third quarter, she spun left and hung a fading two over Brionna Jones, faded over Morgan Tuck in the paint, and stepped through the side of Jonquel Jones. But that wasn’t it. All life faded from the Sun on a Meesseman and-one late in the fourth. To put her team up three possessions, she dribbled past Jasmine Thomas, through the reach of Jones and clanked a runner on the left side home. WNBA   @WNBA Replying to @WNBA and 2 others .@EmmaMeesseman (22 PTS, 3 REB, 3 AST) showed out today when it mattered most! 🔥 #WatchMeWork #WNBAFinals Embedded video 304 7:28 PM - Oct 10, 2019 Twitter Ads info and privacy 85 people are talking about this This was the year of Delle Donne and the WNBA’s first 50/40/90 shooter. It was the second year in a row that a modern, three-point centric offense pushed defenses to reinvent themselves. It’s the playoff run that put Meesseman on the map. And it showed the perseverance of a team that was swept in the Finals a year prior to claw its way back despite injuries to Delle Donne, Atkins and Toliver. “There’s not just one way to beat us,” Toliver said. “We’re going to find a way.” Next year, the WNBA is going to be a gauntlet. Breanna Stewart and Sue Bird, the teammates who swept Washington last season, are expected to return fully healthy for the Seattle Storm. The Las Vegas Aces, who took the Mystics to a close four games, will have another year’s experience. Diana Taurasi, sidelined with a back injury for most of the year, will rise again. Maya Moore’s future with the Minnesota Lynx looms, too. The Mystics already have their place in history. This championship run can stand on its own greatness, or it can be just the beginning of something even bigger.+++1
Only the Connecticut Sun believe they can win their first WNBA title 1 The underdog Sun are one win from their first championship. By Matt Ellentuck@mellentuck  Oct 9, 2019, 10:00am EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Sun star guard Courtney Williams is lifted up by her father after winning Game 4 of the WNBA Finals. The Sun aren’t going down without a fight. Now they’re one win away from a WNBA title. UNCASVILLE, Conn. — The roaring sounds of a packed house at Mohegan Sun for Game 4 of the WNBA Finals on Tuesday night made it hard to hear what Courtney Williams was shouting. She was center court surrounded by teammates following their 90-86 win to push the series against the Washington Mystics to a decisive Game 5, and even with a microphone in hand, the noise was too much. Her voice broke through, if only for a second. “They didn’t believe we’d be here,” Williams said to the crowd. She was referring to the team’s tagline all season that they’d been disrespected and overlooked by fans and the league. She then leaped into the clutch of her father, which set off one last rumbling of cheers from Sun fans. They’re 40 minutes away from seeing their first-ever WNBA championship. RELATED Courtney Williams is showing the WNBA how to let loose Why isn’t Jonquel Jones considered a WNBA megastar? WNBA   @WNBA Pure joy. 🙌@CourtMWilliams and her Dad embrace after the emotional win in Game 4! #WNBAFinals Embedded video 2,507 6:49 PM - Oct 8, 2019 Twitter Ads info and privacy 401 people are talking about this Of course it was this Connecticut Sun team that clawed back against the best offense in WNBA history to force a winner-takes-all finale for a title. Coming into the Finals, nobody could picture the team that’d lost by 43 points to the Mystics in June standing a chance in a five-game series. But Connecticut is a sports cliche personified, and is made to pull off such a monstrous upset. Connecticut is a sports cliche personified ... the Sun don’t give a damn who you are and never have Bluntly, the Sun don’t give a damn who you are and never have. You can tell precisely that after every Alyssa Thomas drive trucking to the basket or Williams shriek to the sidelines after a made bucket. They don’t care what metrics say, or what Vegas’ odds give them. They don’t care if you don’t think they have a superstar. They don’t care if your team is better at shooting. They come out bruising until the buzzer sounds. For the first 20 minutes on Tuesday, living out the cliches made all the difference. Jonquel Jones crashed the boards harder than LaToya Sanders and Elena Delle Donne. Thomas out-muscled Natasha Cloud and Emma Meesseman on her way to the basket. Jasmine Thomas, the team’s weakest offensive link, took open threes in stride. And Williams terrorized in the mid-range. Then the Mystics cracked their code, turning a 16-point deficit into a four-point lead in the fourth quarter. Washington cheated the Sun’s incoming rotations and used Aerial Powers’ unparalleled athleticism to drive to the hoop. The teams traded three consecutive three-point shots in the final three minutes to break open the lead and then tie the game again. Eventually succumbing to the Mystics’ disparity in talent, Connecticut’s back was against the wall. But the Sun were never going to lose this game. No way. They’ve cooked the underdog script all season long, and the final act was never going to be played out on such a sour note. In the end, every player in Connecticut’s rotation had their moment of greatness to fend off the league’s season-long behemoth in the Mystics. Jones finished with 18 points and 13 rebounds, Thomas nearly triple-doubled with 17 points, 11 rebounds and eight rebounds. Williams chipped in 16 points with seven rebounds. And Stricklen and Thomas finished with 15 and 14 respectively. This is what Connecticut does. Ironically, Sun head coach Curt Miller’s built a machine that’s nothing like him. He sat outside the team’s locker room after the win and watched on as his player’s unleashed their emotions into an echoing Mohegan Sun hallway. First, it was Shekinna Stricklen screaming “One more baby!” Then Natisha Hiedeman posing like Hercules before trotting inside. And then Williams again, delivering the lines that’ll forever change how this Sun core is viewed so long as they remain on the same roster. “They didn’t think we’d be here, man. “We’re dogs.”+++1
Elena Delle Donne’s second straight WNBA Finals injury is just cruel 2 The MVP’s injury just isn’t fair. By Matt Ellentuck@mellentuck  Oct 3, 2019, 1:31pm EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Elena Delle Donne is introduced in the starting lineup for the Mystics. Elena Delle Donne’s injury in the WNBA Finals is a huge bummer. D.C. — Mike Thibault’s voice shrunk when asked about the health status of his team’s and the league’s MVP. “It didn’t look good,” he repeated twice at the podium after his team’s 99-87 loss in Game 2 of the Finals. A usually cool and collected coach, Thibault was clearly deep in thought. That’s partly because his team showed poor defensive effort in the first half and lost an important game at home. But mostly because the unthinkable happened. Again. The 2019 WNBA season has been the year of the Washington Mystics, and more specifically, the year of Elena Delle Donne. The MVP tallied the W’s first-ever 50/40/90 shooting season for the the best offense in league history. Thibault’s vision since landing Delle Donne by trade in 2017 came to life. A complete team of shooters, Washington paced and spaced every opponent that came their way. The Mystics not only owned the best record of the regular season, they blew teams out to claim it. What would’ve been a great year for any coach meant that much more to Thibault, the league’s winningest coach ever (336-242) who still doesn’t have a championship. In his 16th year as a head coach in the W, he’d put all the pieces together: he traded for the now-two-time MVP, drafted studs Emma Meesseman, Ariel Atkins and Natasha Cloud, and signed LaToya Sanders and Kristi Toliver. His roster flourished from top to bottom, with each piece of the puzzle proving her purpose throughout the year. This didn’t come easy. He’d weathered the hiccups, too. That included Delle Donne breaking her nose midway through the season, and Toliver suffering a bone bruise that kept her out of the last six weeks of play. But the core was back in place for the Finals. Thibault, Delle Donne and the entire city of Washington were almost assuredly going home with a WNBA ring for the first time. Then, out of nowhere, disaster struck. Now nothing is as certain as it once was. Three minutes into Game 2, Delle Donne caught a pass on the block with the Connecticut Sun’s relentless machine Alyssa Thomas on her back. She took one power dribble left, spun right, squared up and hung in the air like she has all season. But unlike what we’re used to, she forced the ball too strong off the glass. After taking one extra unintentional bump from Jonquel Jones after her release, she motioned for a sub. That was it for her night, leaving with what was determined to be a small disc herniation in her back. “This is the one nightmare I’ve had for the last month,” Thibault said postgame, “there’d be some hairline thing on her back. I watched that in 2014 in Chicago, and it wasn’t a good sight for me then, and it wasn’t a good sight for me now.” The Mystics say Delle Donne will receive treatment for the week and an update on her status will be given on Saturday. Even if she does return, once again she’ll be playing through injury on the biggest stage. Thibault, Delle Donne and the Mystics deserve better Both Thibault and Delle Donne receiving the same gut-punch in one swing feels cruel, even for the unforgiving basketball gods who claimed Breanna Stewart, Angel McCoughtry, Sue Bird and Diana Taurasi for most if not all of the season. The coach and superstar have seen shit luck at the most inopportune time, again and again. When is enough? Three WNBA Finals could’ve gone differently for Thibault and Delle Donne. In 2005, Thibault’s Connecticut Sun finished with the best record in the league, and reached the Finals for a second straight year. After losing Game 1, Thibault’s star point guard, Lindsay Whalen, turned her ankle and suffered a non-displaced fracture in her foot. The Sun lost in four games. In 2014, then with the Chicago Sky, Delle Donne suffered back spasms, which limited her to 10 minutes in Game 1. The Sky were subsequently swept by the Phoenix Mercury. And last season, Thibault’s Mystics were swept by the Seattle Storm after Delle Donne, hobbled with a deep bone bruise suffered in the semifinals, was a shell of herself for the final three games. The seemingly eternal sadness of Thibault and Delle Donne’s inability to play and coach the Finals the way they deserve to will persist whether she returns in Game 3 or not. It’s unlikely, with just five days between games, she’s going to be at full strength. Once again, Thibault’s going to have to search for answers to big questions with limited time. Hope isn’t all lost. Delle Donne may return for Game 3, much like she returned after five days of recovery in last year’s postseason. Even if she isn’t a full-go, she’s the best shooter in the world, and Connecticut will have to honor her as such. There’s a gameplan for Thibault to work with there. If she doesn’t play, there are options too. Though Jones dominated Game 2 for 32 points and 18 boards without 6’5 Delle Donne’s presence to stop her, the Mystics had the game within one possession until the final three minutes of play. Washington’s roster is more than just Delle Donne, with Meesseman, Atkins, Toliver, Cloud and more all capable of carrying the scoring load. “With or without Elena, this team is capable of winning a championship,” Cloud said. But this isn’t how the 2019 season was supposed to go. Not in the year the Mystics’ dominance reached its apex, Delle Donne’s brilliance perched the throne of all-time hoopers and Thibault’s offense shattered record books. Not again.+++1
BIG CAT EYES 6 LSU learned to mold and channel its natural chaos, and then unleashed it on the way to a national title. By Spencer Hall@edsbs  Jan 14, 2020, 3:12pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options LSU is the horde. This is their forever story; they have always been the horde. Like the Mongols, they appear seemingly out of nowhere and consume everything in their path. Their coach eating twenty pounds of crawfish at once; their legacy of raking up the prime talent in the state and trucking it back to Baton Rouge for safekeeping; their insatiable fanbase, so steady in their consumption that they drink bars dry wherever they go and set records for beer sales in enemy arenas. If they’d stayed in town ten minutes longer after the Peach Bowl, LSU would have eaten the whale sharks in the aquarium down the street. Hordes have never given much thought to waste, burning through resources without fear of scarcity and moving on to the next pillage. For a long time, LSU lived that way. They put grade A talent in C-grade systems, and that was good enough to beat most teams. It was a hard deal to turn down for barbarians: Win eight to ten games a season, lose to the empire in Tuscaloosa every year, and loot every bar in Orlando or Tampa during the bowl game. Locusts can’t carry suitcases, and LSU fans limited their baggage to one cardboard 12-pack for carry-on and zero memories of what might have been. The right degree of organization can stop a horde. It seems like rank madness to type this now: In 2018, LSU scored zero points against Alabama. That’s a void where a something should have been, and that’s with Joe Burrow, Clyde Edwards-Helaire, Terrace Marshall, Justin Jefferson, and a host of other players you know from the 2019 LSU team trying to move the ball out there. A throng as vast and as hungry as LSU’s can have trouble finding its focus, but when they do, this [gesturing to everything in giddy flames around us] happens. Those same players, better honed and maybe a little wiser, just hung 628 yards of offense and 42 points on Clemson in pursuit of a national title. The management overhauled the offense. The transfer quarterback, who was at one point playing third-string for the Ohio State Buckeyes, went the hell off for four record-setting months of manic offensive plundering. The defense, good last year, went from being the tape holding LSU together in big games to something much, much more fun: preying on teams frantically trying to keep pace with LSU on the scoreboard. No longer under constant siege, they experienced the joy of closing down the stretch, waiting for stressed and desperate teams to make mistakes, and fall beneath their wheels. And not even Clemson could keep pace, punting a galling nine times in the Superdome. Travis Etienne, desperately trying to spark his reigning national championship squad in the second quarter, made three defenders miss in the backfield. Looking to what should have been open ground ahead of him, he instead looked up, and met the crashing gut of LSU defensive lineman Neil Farrell, Jr. falling onto him, for all the world like a logger meeting the fattest, meanest tree in the forest. Unfair is the word, but perhaps not in the way you’re thinking. It’s a delightful, unleashed, soaring kind of unfair. Playing LSU this season was like watching your car burn down to the frame on a roadside, or witnessing a landslide casually carry an entire neighborhood into the ocean. It felt like that because everyone knew LSU had this kind of talent to burn, but also that the prospect of focusing that talent seemed to swing between impossible and unlikely, given the program’s history. Only Nick Saban in 2003 had ever drilled down the horde long enough to get them into something like regimental shape; only Les Miles and a string of straight-up blackjacks against the dealer had gotten them there in 2007. Luck didn’t book a hotel room in New Orleans. LSU’s horde needed a conduit and a compass. That’s it. That direction manifested in the mind of Joe Brady, who fashioned an offense that was less of a game plan and more of a series of opportunities in space. Brady’s pupils flowed in, over, and around whatever stood in front of them, finding weaknesses in the fencing and prying them open for gain. Against Alabama, it was Clyde Edwards-Hilaire who tore through the dam of the Crimson Tide, breaking tackles and battering away past first-down markers. Against Clemson, it was Ja’Marr Chase, to whom Burrow returned whenever Brent Venables’ blurry blitzing and fakery threatened to overwhelm. And for a conduit, LSU fielded the best in the history of the game. Joe Burrow was as close to functionally perfect as any college quarterback has ever been. Cam Newton might lay claim to dominance over a single season, but in the sense that Newton was a self-contained weapon capable of blowing up a game single-handedly. Newton played like dynamite: Put him in the spot, and he’d detonate and bring down whole buildings. Joe Burrow played like kerosene. It’s how he was everywhere and spreading in all directions simultaneously, hitting every receiver on the depth chart for five, ten, twenty yards at once, less of a quarterback and more of an accelerant. He threw receivers open and burned down secondaries. He took hits and evaded tackles and scrambled downfield for first downs whenever it would inflict maximum damage and humiliation. Burrow, in a way very, very few quarterbacks ever do even at the pro level, saw physics problems in motion and threw into them, rather than trying to hit points on a map, with a kind of aggression so relentless as to be indistinguishable from blind optimism. Because ... well, why wouldn’t it work if Joe Burrow is throwing the ball? Who are you going to believe, your lying eyes or Thaddeus Moss with another touchdown in his hands? This is rare space here, but this entire season belongs in that territory because of Burrow’s singular ability to twine chaos into something whole, something beautiful, of seeing daylight twenty yards downfield a full five seconds before anyone else. There is a lofty point at which an athlete transcends execution and transubstantiates into creation, and Burrow visited it on a weekly basis in 2019, only performing better and more out of his mind as the season progressed. Burrow started out great. He finished the playoffs in hundred-armed-and-levitating Doctor Strange mode: fourteen touchdowns in two games, and leading his team to a combined 105 points against the best competition the sport had to offer. That isn’t football. That is sorcery, channeling the kind of deft holy geometry that can get lost in the thumping crashes of the American game. I don’t think I’ll know how great this team was for years yet, because it will take that long to come to terms with just how much territory they covered, and how quickly they did it. I don’t even think their fans will, either. It’s too much, too fast, and done with such terrifying ease. Even now, with New Orleans draped in a fog that won’t budge, and purple and gold-clad faithful waking up in cemeteries or jails or draped across three barstools to drag themselves back to the mortal plane, there is the sense that this all set in with an unreal quickness. If the Bayou Bengals are that merry horde, then this is their zenith, summited in a rush so swift and so wildly victorious that the ride to get there, across half a world of acreage, flashed past like a momentary hallucination. For years, LSU turned off the lights, started swinging, and called that victory. Then, in Joe Burrow, the horde revealed a legitimate marvel: a captain who didn’t ever want to turn on the lights, or need to. He could already see in the dark.+++1
There are other coaches you could hire 8 It might feel like a good idea to hire a coach connected to bad things, but here’s an idea: what if you hired a different coach? By Alex Kirshner@alex_kirshner  Jan 16, 2020, 10:08am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options A coach. Photo by Tom Pennington/Getty Images. Banner Society illustration. If you are reading this, maybe you, a college athletic director, are considering a hire of that coach. You know the coach I’m talking about. That one? Well, I meant the other coach similar to him, but yes, him and all other coaches who are like him. People disagree about whether the bad incident at his last job was entirely his fault. Did he have a direct hand in hurting people, or no? Did one of his underlings do it? Did he even have a responsibility to stop it? Does any of this matter, since he was the person in charge, and his most important job was to oversee good behavior on a college campus? Doesn’t everyone deserve a second chance? We could argue about that all day. There’s no arguing Coach is considered pretty good at coaching football, though. He wouldn’t have had that job in the first place if he didn’t know a couple things about ball. His school was accomplishing things it rarely did in its entire history. Do you remember how good recruiting was going, before a bunch of people got mad and Coach had to leave? Of course you, the AD, are looking to hire a coach like that. Here is an idea, though: What if you didn’t? Sure, you could hire that coach. Someone might do it eventually, and that could lead to winning games, and winning games is good for athletic directors such as yourself. But lots of other coaches have won games before and/or will win games in the future, so maybe just hire a different coach and see how it goes. Then again, if you don’t hire That Coach, will anyone? If no one hires him, he’ll feel like he’s been blackballed, even though we don’t all fully agree on whether the thing at his old school was his fault! However, you’re not in charge of the entire sport. You’re just in charge of one school. And even if no other school hires him, there are thousands of other jobs he could do, most of which don’t involve overseeing adolescents. He might be an amazing insurance salesman. So what if you just hire another coach instead? There are many other coaches. You could hire that up-and-comer from the lower level. They’ve won like 20 games the last two years, and that’s a ton over there. Someone’s going to hire him eventually, and he’s got ties to the region. You could hire that coordinator who schemed the hell up and helped win your conference last year. It’s pretty clear he’ll become a head coach eventually, and he knows your region well too. You could hire that NFL assistant. He’d love to get a title bump, and if he can coach against the best in the world, he can coach against the puds in your conference. Did I mention he was a GA at your school a while back? You could hire the retired guy who coached at your school 20 years ago. Sure, he left you before, but he did a lot of impressive stuff afterward. You’ll have his loyalty this time. All those years he’s spent in broadcasting (or whatever) mean he’s not as removed from the sport as it might seem. Did I mention his wife still talks about how much she liked your college town? Maybe just keep your interim coach. Your players like and trust him. Shoot, you could hire that awesome high school coach down the road. Your ticket to contention isn’t much more complicated than recruiting the hell out of your backyard, and who knows your region better than the guy who won state last year? He’d have instant credibility, and you could get him cheap. We might be thinking too deeply. Your AD could walk into the middle of that big coaches convention they have every year and hire whichever of the 7,000 coaches he likes most at the hotel bar. That last idea would make for an extremely random process, but consider the benefits: a) you don’t have to pay a search firm, and b) your new friend will probably not, statistically speaking, have presided over especially noteworthy bad things. Of course, you should do a background check before hiring any of these coaches, especially that random bar guy. If it turns out this coach might’ve led a program that had a harmful culture, or you have fair reason to think he failed to stop something awful on his watch, or a lot of people say he did indefensible things to them, then I have some important news: There are other coaches you could hire.+++1
Every time, LSU and New Orleans title games are inseparable 4 And the voodoo trend all the way back to the 1930s, kind of. By Jason Kirk  Jan 17, 2020, 3:47pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Photo by Jamie Schwaberow/Getty Images. Banner Society Illustration. Every time LSU goes to a football national title game, that game is in Louisiana. 2019. 2011. 2007. 2003. And so on! Yes, it goes back even further! But it also gets even odder. In the 2000s, every time college football’s national championship has been in Louisiana, LSU has been there. Since 1999’s Sugar Bowl, all four title games in New Orleans have featured LSU. First, think about what a weirdly difficult achievement-like thing this is. Some other teams also have lists of national championships commonly associated with nearby bowls. Most of USC’s titles involve Rose wins, for example. But it’s not quite like LSU and NOLA. USC’s most recent title came via an Orange Bowl win, and USC’s last outright title won at the Rose Bowl was in 1978. In the BCS era alone, four non-USC teams won Pasadena title games, with the Trojans missing three of those games. Constantly having hometown champs at pre-arranged neutral-sites is only common in fake sports like pro wrestling and international men’s soccer. Host nations made seven of the first 11 World Cup finals, and a few stand out as suspicious when compared to their success in tournaments played elsewhere. Home cooking is the only known explanation for World Cup finals featuring traditionally mediocre national footie teams such as England. But even then, we’re not talking about a championship situation like New Orleans/LSU. Because even if England had ever won a soccer title in my dad’s lifetime, it wouldn’t have repeatedly done so in England. Normal sports also help show the weirdness of this NOLA Tigers thing. No NFL team has ever played a Super Bowl in its stadium, though the 49ers and Rams each played one at college stadiums in their cities. Most other pro sports have the sense to avoid “neutral”-site games. In college basketball, you have some stuff like Butler nearly winning a March Madness final in Indianapolis, but only once, not literally every time the March Madness final is in Indianapolis. Now let’s go back through time to show everything that had to happen in order to link every LSU national title to New Orleans. (And only New Orleans). 2019: The most actively anti-offense school in the country needed to suddenly deploy a video game attack, meaning Joe Burrow had to go from an average FBS quarterback to arguably the best college player ever. If the Tigers had their 2018 offense in 2019 against Texas, Florida, Auburn, and Alabama, they probably wouldn’t have reached NOLA. And even if they somehow got there, they probably wouldn’t have beaten Clemson. 2012: LSU might’ve been one Bama screen pass away from getting to beat Notre Dame in the BCS Championship, but this BCS Championship was not in New Orleans, so the screen pass happened. The Tigers would’ve also had to beat Georgia in the SEC Championship. Since this BCS title game was outside of Louisiana, either Bama or Georgia was always destined to stop LSU. And since Georgia is Georgia, it was always going to be Bama. AJ McCarron’s incredible dump-off put LSU in the Peach Bowl against Clemson, meaning the Purple Death Valleys Tigers Rivalry also forms its own sub-trend. 2011: LSU reached NOLA by being one of the best college football teams ever, beating a list of ranked teams that included three of the final top five. No one remembers what happens once those Tigers got to New Orleans, though. I’m sure it went great. Anyway, 2019 LSU is now probably the best college football team ever, so all is well at last. 2010: If not for Cam Newton feats such as The Cam Newton Run, LSU probably would’ve made the BCS Championship in Arizona. But Arizona is not in New Orleans, in my opinion, and therefore Auburn had Cam Newton. If this BCS title game had been in Louisiana, would the LSU-to-NOLA gravitational pull have been strong enough to counter Cam being a one-man national title? We’ll never know. 2007: All it took for this two-loss LSU to make it to New Orleans’ BCS Championship: the most ludicrous season in football history. If one of about a million stupid things goes differently in 2007, there is no LSU-NOLA trend. 2006: A 7-3 loss at Auburn might’ve kept LSU out of the BCS Championship in Arizona. This year, LSU ranked #9 in scoring. This year, LSU scored three points against Auburn, with five scoreless drives inside War Eagle territory. Some say Auburn forever ruins things. When it comes to our precious trend of ensuring the Bayou Bengals only play for titles in the Bayou, Auburn actually protects things. Because you know where LSU did spend the holidays? That’s right: obliterating Charlie Weis’ Notre Dame in New Orleans’ Sugar Bowl. RELATED Notre Dame’s lost 8 straight big bowls. Let’s rank them 2003: At the buzzer, BCS ratings bumped eventual champ LSU ahead of USC for the title shot in New Orleans against Oklahoma. In those years, the BCS formula was constantly changing. Looking back, we could say this happened to be a year when the computers were powerful enough to overcome both human polls having USC #1. (It was thus also a year that would contribute to more tinkering than usual.) If the BCS had worked slightly less favorably this year, Nick Saban’s national champion Tigers would’ve instead played in the Peach Bowl against an 8-4 ........ yep, them again .......... Clemson. So that’s also how close Saban came in 2003 to facing his ghost of Christmas future: Dabo Swinney Actually the only ghost is the Holy Ghost 2003 Clemson media guide No wonder Saban left for the Dolphins. Are we done? No. Let’s also look at every pre-2000 season in which LSU had a #1 ranking according to multiple NCAA-recognized title selectors. You know, all those assorted rankings used for title claims by desperately thirsty programs such as UCF and Alabama. 1958: LSU won its first consensus national title by beating (that’s right) Clemson in (you guessed it) New Orleans. Technically, poll titles in those days were awarded before bowl season, but historians and advanced stats might not’ve agreed with those polls if the Purple Death Valleys Tigers Rivalry had gone differently. 1936: Two NCAA-recognized computer systems recognize LSU as the final #1. By Bama’s standards, the Tigers should claim this title. (Not by UCF’s, since LSU lost a game this year.) The game LSU lost was the Sugar Bowl in New Orleans to the mighty Santa Clara Broncos, in fact. Santa Clara won three bowls ever, and two of them were back-to-back Sugar Bowls against LSU. And there you have it. Every LSU title season, whether claimed or otherwise, ended in New Orleans. And except for four Sugar Bowls in the 1900s, every outright national title game in New Orleans has been either won or lost by LSU.+++1
LA Galaxy complete Chicharito signing, says SI’s Grant Wahl 3 Mexican superstar appears bound for MLS. By Alicia Rodriguez  Jan 17, 2020, 10:16am PST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Um Escobedo v Sevilla - Spanish Copa del Rey Photo by David S. Bustamante/Soccrates/Getty Images The Chicharito transfer saga has been rumbling on for the LA Galaxy this week, and the latest comes from SI.com’s Grant Wahl, who reported on Friday morning that the Galaxy have completed a deal to sign Chicharito from Spanish club Sevilla, per unnamed sources. The report indicates a contract has been signed and Chicharito will be the highest-paid player in MLS. Wahl is a reputable source, and the latest comes a day after reports from American sources claimed a deal could be on the rocks. Despite that, this pursuit of Chicharito, after years in which numerous MLS teams tried to chase the Mexican superstar, to no avail, appeared to be trending to a successful deal for the Galaxy all week. Chicharito will immediately be the biggest star in MLS, being immensely popular in both Mexico and the United States, and coming to a city that has such a large Mexican-heritage population is a no-brainer. While the recent past of Mexican stars in LA is checkered — Giovani dos Santos turned out to be a flop for the Galaxy but his brother Jonathan has been good for the same team and Carlos Vela has been a hit for LAFC and is the reigning MLS MVP — Chicharito is a slam dunk for MLS and the Galaxy on a marketing front, and he is a very good bet to be in the Golden Boot reckoning this season. The report is not yet confirmed by the Galaxy, but again, Wahl is a very reputable source and the signs have been trending to this signing being done eventually all week. Consider this transfer effectively set, and we’ll see the full rollout from the Galaxy pretty soon, likely. Buckle up for the Chicharito show in Los Angeles! It’s probably going to be a terrific ride. What do you think? Leave a comment below!+++1
Tactically Naive: Liverpool have broken the Premier League 3 Liverpool’s massive gap over the Premier League may say less about them, and more about everyone else. By Andi Thomas@andi_thomas  Jan 13, 2020, 3:23pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Photo of Liverpool’s Trent Alexander-Arnold hurdling over a Manchester United defender who is laying prone on the ground. Hello, and welcome to another episode of Tactically Naive, SB Nation’s weekly soccer column. Do columns come in episodes? Did your correspondent mean to type “edition” but miss? For the answer to neither of these questions, read on ... The Premier League has a Liverpool problem On Saturday, Spurs played Liverpool. That’s a big game, right? You know it is. Spurs. Liverpool. Big teams equal a big game. Premier League. Lions roaring. Let’s do this. Also on Saturday, a mid-table team under new management played another team that was 28 points ahead of them (and half that ahead of everybody else). That second team hasn’t lost a league game in living memory, and is on course to be champions before the crocuses bloom. As games go, that second one doesn’t sound particularly big, does it? You might watch if you had nothing else on. You wouldn’t expect much. But! What if we told you that the two games described were the same game. [The crowd gasps. There is scattered applause, some screaming. Three people faint. Tactically Naive is chased out of town by an armed posse.] We played ourselves, of course. We turned up and tuned in expecting the first game — Spurs! Liverpool! — and got the second. After the event, Jose Mourinho got it in the neck for Spurs’ approach, which was typical for Mourinho but atypical for Spurs: ew, no, we don’t want the ball. You can have the ball. Go on, take it. Please. Phew. RELATED The Premier League has an elite manager drought The beauty of England’s FA Cup TN can’t help but think that some of the criticism against him is a little harsh. Mourinho only got the job because Spurs were looking pretty miserable under the last bloke, and he’s had it less than two months. Harry Kane is crocked, and Christian Eriksen transferred his mind over the summer, though his body has yet to catch up. And hey, they nearly nicked a point. Now, if they’re still playing like dedicated miserabilists in a year’s time — and the odds are good — then TN will be pitchforking it up with the best of them. But not yet. Also, Liverpool. It is obviously stupid to suggest that a team can win a title too well, but Liverpool’s lead, now at 14 points with a game in hand, is so vast that it is distorting the rest of the competition. This has two consequences. The first is long term: if Liverpool keeps picking up points at the same rate they are now, they’ll finish close to 30 points ahead of Manchester City. We may get to a point where their lead is so big that it stops being about Liverpool. Win a league by 10 points, and you’re brilliant. Win a league by 30 points, and something weird has happened. Imagine a child, 50 years from now. To kill a quiet moment in the Third Water War, they’re looking back at old league tables. They get to 2019-20, and see a 30-point gap. Do they think, “Well, they must have been good?” Or do they think, “What the hell was everybody else up to?” The more immediate effect is that the big games — the tentpoles of the Premier League project, the things that make Sundays super — are having the Bigness drained out of them. Manchester United go to Liverpool next weekend, hoping to make a dent into a 27-point gap. Manchester City host Liverpool on April 4th, and the title race could be over by then. Actually over, that is; not just obviously over, as it is now. RELATED There’s no better representation of Manchester United than trying to keep Ashley Young Amazon’s vision for soccer broadcasts feels safe and potentially game-changing Absolutely none of this matters to Liverpool fans, of course, and nor should it. But it does put the rest of the Premier League season in an odd place. Maybe Sky could pivot coverage over to the relegation race early? Or we could all go watch Serie A, where— oh man, Juventus are back on top. Come on. Valverde does what needs to be done For most of a football match, the red card rule is a perfectly acceptable way of policing football’s rogues and renegades. But for the last few minutes, it becomes a liability. There is a point when it is worth risking a red card over a near-certain goal. The former becomes less of a punishment as the time in a match dwindles down. By the end, it’s almost no punishment at all. Which is why Fede Valverde was able to win the Spanish Supercopa for Real Madrid with this poem, this gem, this vision of glittering, cynical beauty: Football Whispers   @FB_WHISPERS Federico Valverde with a cynical foul even Diego Simeone must have been proud of 😳#RealMadridAtleti #Supercopa2020 Embedded video 41 1:00 AM - Jan 13, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy See Football Whispers's other Tweets Obviously, a sport that makes doing this sort of thing sensible is, in an important sense, a little bit broken. But on the other hand, a sport that can have a cup final swing on such a moment is, in a significantly more important sense, very funny. And there is a certain kind of clear-eyed focus that goes into these moments. A lesser person would have panicked and tried to make a clean tackle, or gone too far the other way and done something dangerous. Valverde went at this like a surgeon. No wonder Diego Simeone was impressed. In truth, it was a fitting end to this strange Supercopa, a tournament that was expanded to four teams, just in case one of Real Madrid or Barcelona managed to miss it, and played out in Saudi Arabia, because it’s a lovely place this time of year. Cynicism begets cynicism. Never has a man of the match award been so deserving.+++1
Ernesto Valverde deserved more respect than Barcelona gave him 2 Barcelona tried to humiliate their former manager for no good reason. By Zito Madu@_Zeets  Jan 15, 2020, 7:00am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Former Barcelona manager Ernesto Valverde reacting to play from the sideline in his suit. Considering the way that Ernesto Valverde’s time at Barcelona ended, it would be easy to think that he was a complete failure, and not a manager who won La Liga twice and has his team on top of the league again. Before cutting ties, Barcelona seemed to go out of their way to humiliate him. It was surprising that Vavlerde lasted until halfway through the season after two incredible collapses against Roma and Liverpool in the Champions League. At the same time, it was stunning to watch the club publicly court other managers and undermine Valverde before hiring Quique Setién. Valverde came into the job at a time when Barcelona were going through an identity crisis and Real Madrid were pulling off a league and Champions League double. Shortly after Valverde took ever, Neymar left, which torpedoed the succession plan for Lionel Messi. Valverde managed to steady the ship, at least domestically, returning the club back to the top of La Liga. He even nearly went undefeated one season. He had his issues, of course. Valverde’s style of play was so overly cautious and pragmatic, so often frustrating in its reliance on individual brilliance, that his trophies failed to make up for Barcelona’s lack of aesthetic style and excitement. Towards the end of his tenure, fans had lost all patience with him. He was booed whenever he was shown on screen as Barcelona blew a 2-1 lead against Atletico Madrid in the Spanish Super Cup. The day after the loss to Atletico, Barcelona openly went after Xavi Hernandez to replace Valverde. Xavi turned down them down. Then they went after numerous other managers without informing the current one. Valverde apparently had to read reports like everyone else to find out that his job was being offered to others behind his back. After failing to land numerous targets — and Valverde’s tenure effectively over, because there could be no reconciliation after he was so undermined — the club had no choice but to end the manager’s contract and settle for whoever else was available. The public drama and disdain that led to Valverde’s sacking has become the norm for top level managers, who are more often tossed out than given a friendly farewell. Those acrimonious endings stand out in contrast to the optimism that usually surrounds managers when they are hired. Just as Valverde was being pushed out and embarrassed, Setién was being celebrated as Barcelona’s new hope. Eventually, Setién will also be humiliated. Everyone gets a chance to walk the plank. RELATED A Spanish soccer club suspended its manager after his nudes were leaked online It makes sense why so many managers leave their teams in discord: if things were going well, they wouldn’t end. There are a few telltale signs that a manager’s time is going poorly: disagreements with the board, losing the players’ locker room, and power struggles between the manager and those above him. And even the best managers can only eke out three years or so before things fall apart. Pep Guardiola was able to walk away from Barcelona in 2012 on good terms after his four seasons, citing fatigue. It was one of the few times in recent memory when things didn’t end badly for a manager, and even he admits that he would have eventually been sacked in the same contentious way as everyone else had he tried to continue. His time was similar with Bayern, who he left in 2016 by mutual consent. Managers, like footballers, are only valued when they’re useful. The fact that everyone is replaceable makes it easy to treat human beings like things. Just as most teams wouldn’t hesitate to sell a once-beloved player when they can no longer contribute at an acceptable level, teams don’t need to care about how managers are discarded. It’s hard to imagine this trend of public disrespect towards managers reversing anytime soon. Managers are paid handsomely enough that a lot people, fans and officials alike, don’t get upset if they suffer a little at the end of their jobs. But just because cynicism is understandable within the business framework of football, that does not make it necessary or fair. There was no need for Barcelona to treat Valverde the way they did when they wanted to move on. They would have done no harm by simply informing him of the impending separation, or ending the relationship before openly courting others. The situation could have been handled in a more respectful way towards the manager, and by extension those who were lining up for his position. In the process, the club would have heightened its reputation by approaching the transition with more care. Instead, Barcelona’s clumsiness just proved that even a club that claims to have higher ideals isn’t exempt from mistreating employees who are no longer useful to them.+++1
Christian Pulisic’s favorite Chipotle order is a burrito of sadness 18 He could have done so much better. By James Dator  Jan 15, 2020, 11:23am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Christian Pulisic is better than me at approximately 100,000 things, but I obliterate him when it comes to having a good order at Chipotle. Christian Pulisic   @cpulisic_10 I am excited to announce my partnership with one of my all-time favorites, @ChipotleTweets !  You can try my order for a limited time exclusively on the Chipotle app or at http://Chipotle.com  #traineatrepeat #sponsored Embedded video 4,777 6:01 AM - Jan 15, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 503 people are talking about this Pulisic partnered with Chipotle to share his favorite order and invited people to make it theirs, to which I say, “No, thank you, sir — this is some basic-ass Chipotle ordering.” For the record, this is “The Pulisic”: Chicken burrito with white rice, pinto beans, sour cream, cheese, guacamole, lettuce. First off, I embrace the basic ideal that you should eat what you want and not be swayed by what the rest of the world tells you. That said, I also embrace the ideal that you shouldn’t have tiny baby taste buds and should learn to appreciate the finer things in life. Pulisic’s order isn’t bad — it’s just hopelessly boring. Let me explain why: Choice 1: Burrito. I’m good with this. It’s the appropriate choice. I understand why so many people go for the burrito bowl because it’s inherently healthier, but if you say straight-faced that a bowl is better than a burrito, you’re lying. The tortilla provides necessary juice-soppage and makes the food relatively portable. This was a good choice. Choice 2: Chicken. It’s here where Pulisic’s order starts to go off the rails. Chicken is a bottom-tier protein selection at Chipotle with no discernible benefit. Fun fact: Chipotle chicken is the second-highest calorie protein on the menu and near the bottom in flavor. In my humble opinion, the proteins rate thusly: God tier: Carne asada. S tier: Barbacoa. A tier: Carnitas, steak. B tier: Chicken, sofritas. Choice 3: White rice. In my experience, Chipotle always overcooks their rice into oblivion where it might as well be mush. There’s no doubt their white rice tastes better than brown, but lately I’ve been selecting the brown rice because it’s more al dente and better prepared. It gives more of a textural contrast to the burrito that I enjoy. I’m okay with this pick. Choice 4: Pinto beans. If you’re going to choose beans, I’m down with pintos. Black beans are fine too — but pintos give a little more flavor. I think Chipotle seasons them better. That said, pro-tip: don’t get beans at all. The slick move is to ask for a “Fajita burrito,” which used to be a menu item and now it’s a secret off-menu thing. You lose the beans in favor of grilled peppers and onions. It adds some necessary crunch and cuts down the amount of liquid you’re adding to the burrito itself. Choice 5: Cheese. Yes, cheese is good. Choice 6: Sour cream. A contentious addition for sure. Personally, I like sour cream. I like it to add a little bit of richness and necessary food lubrication to my burrito. I’m good with this choice. Choice 7: Guac. God-tier addition with zero negative words from me. Personally I don’t normally bring myself to add guac because of the hefty additional fee and I’m cheap. Choice 8: NO SALSA!!!!!!! This warrants seven exclamation points. I always put hot salsa on my burrito, but I’m not going to slam anyone for putting pico or corn salsa on their meal because they don’t like spicy food. I am, however, going to slam Pulisic for deciding to put NO SALSA on his burrito. Here’s the deal: Chipotle is, at best, vaguely Mexican food. It’s mass-produced American happiness rolled in a tortilla to make us feel like we’re eating ethnic food. The only differentiating factor is the salsa options. I’m not going to say Chipotle’s salsa verde is transcendent or anything like that, but at least it makes you feel like you’re eating something outside of bog-standard American food. To rob yourself of salsa is to rob your taste buds of opportunity. Choice 9: Lettuce. Nah, no thanks. I can’t get down with lettuce on a burrito. Perhaps it’s a personal preference, but I don’t need the texture and coldness that lettuce provides. Also, it eventually gets hot, and hot lettuce is gross. The James Dator perfect Chipotle order: Carne asada fajita burrito with brown rice, sour cream, cheese, guacamole and salsa roja. Try it sometime and you’ll thank me forever.+++1
There’s no better representation of Manchester United than trying to keep Ashley Young 2 Young’s potential transfer, and Manchester United’s effort to keep him, perfectly embodies how far the club has fallen. By Andi Thomas@andi_thomas  Jan 10, 2020, 12:27pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Ashley Young playing for Manchester United, stumbling while dribbling. It’s been an embarrassing few weeks for Manchester United. First they collapsed limply against Arsenal, a defeat compounded by Leeds’ thrilling performance at the Emirates a week later. Then they were blown into tiny humiliated pieces by Manchester City. And now, the embarrassing cherry on this humiliating cake, club captain Ashley Young might be about to leave. Stop laughing at the back. Young, according to the rumour mill, may be moving to Internazionale to join Antonio Conte and Romelu Lukaku as they attempt to break Juventus’ stranglehold on the title. United, in response, have reportedly offered Young a year’s extension to his contract, which expires in the summer. This offer makes no sense and makes perfect sense simultaneously. There is no reason why Manchester United — as they think they should be, as habit insists they should be, as the sponsorship deals suggest they should be — need trouble themselves with the departure of a 34-year-old squad player. However experienced, however much of a leader, however useful: so long, Ash, and thanks for all that hard work at fullback. Also there was that time a bird went in your mouth. We’ll leave that out of the farewell montage. RELATED The beauty of England’s FA Cup However, Manchester United as they are can’t really afford to lose a squad player of Young’s usefulness because, well, they have a squad made up of nothing but squad players. Every first-teamer — with maybe a handful of exceptions, which we’ll get to later — is, in this moment, good enough to appear on the bench of (the ideal ) Manchester United as an option, or a prospect, or as somebody that will do a job in a pinch. But no better. The Ashley Young Paradox, then, is the contradiction between the abstract and the specific states in which Manchester United exists. It is extremely important that they continue to pretend that they are Manchester United, swaggering champions by right. Yet they cannot let Ashley Young go because they think they could do with having him around. And they’re probably right. A powerful feedback loop has emerged: United can’t let anybody go, but then they don’t get any better because — surprise — they’ve got a squad filled with squad players. Ashley Young is just as important as Juan Mata (new contract in 2019; runs to 2021), or Phil Jones (same; runs to 2023), or Nemanja Matic (contract expiring this summer, but there’s a year option there ...). This is why every Manchester United lineup is underwhelming: Solskjaer doesn’t have the options to whelm. Those exceptions, briefly. David de Gea and Paul Pogba on past brilliance. Anthony Martial on talent. And Aaron Wan-Bissaka and Harry Maguire were certainly brought in to form half of an elite defence. None of them are playing up to their ceilings, though. Pogba’s barely playing at all. None would get anywhere near Liverpool’s first XI, 27 points distant. It’s not entirely clear that Maguire, on current form, would get back into Leicester’s. RELATED Reflecting on Liverpool’s bizarre 2 games in 24 hours Indeed, the only player in United’s squad who is playing like he belongs in the first XI of a genuinely powerful side is Marcus Rashford. As such, and in accordance with the traditions of our time, every time he has a quiet game half the internet finds him on social media and calls him appalling things. It’s almost magical, the effect that moving to Manchester United has on footballers. Everything Fred the Red touches turns to 6 out of 10. Of course, this hasn’t come about by accident. Rather, it’s the culmination of many years of accident, mismanagement, negligence, inadequacy, arrogance, and straightforward stupidity. You can distribute those adjectives amongst the owners, the executive, the procession of managers, and the players as you please; you can’t go too far wrong. Nobody wins a title without a few squad players, of course. They come off the bench to put useful shifts in. And there are coaches that can extract brilliance from squad players, and scouting departments that extract brilliance from the transfer market. And there are, so rumour has it, football clubs that manage to have both at the same time. Not United, though. United are a riddle, wrapped in an enigma, wrapped in a paradox called Ashley Young, a faithful servant and useful squad player whose apparent importance only serves to emphasise the club’s increasing irrelevance. All that said, he’s still a useful squad player.+++1
Inter Milan’s throwback striker partnership is why it can win Serie A 1 Inter’s tandem of Romelu Lukaku and Lautaro Martinez is old school and effective, and also really, really fun to watch. By Kim McCauley@lgbtqfc  Jan 10, 2020, 11:12am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Romelu Lukaku and Lautaro Martinez walking with their backs turned and their arms interlocked. In the eight years they’ve held the Scudetto, Juventus has never faced a stiffer challenge than Antonio Conte’s Inter Milan. Conte, who guided Juve out of its post-Calciopoli struggles and back to the top of Italian soccer, is having a successful first season with his former employer’s historical rivals, and his super striker partnership is the biggest reason why. Lautaro Martinez and Romelu Lukaku have been a stunning success for the Nerazzurri, scoring 25 of Inter’s 39 goals so far in Serie A. Between Martinez’s relative inexperience and Lukaku’s offseason fitness issues, no one expected them to get firing this quickly, but they’ve proven exceptionally reliable. The pair were at their best Monday, scoring all of Inter’s goals in an impressive win away to Napoli. Lukaku has 14 goals in Serie A this season, good for second in the league. Martinez is tied for sixth with nine. They are visually and aesthetically classic complements of each other — the powerful big man and the tricky little man. The striker partnership, once a fixture across world soccer, has died out some. As attackers have gotten fitter and more well-rounded, coaches have sacrificed the extra body up top for better coverage in other areas of the pitch with three-man midfields. One complete striker coupled with wingers that like to cut inside can give teams just as much presence in the attacking penalty area as they’d get with a 4-4-2. But strategy aside, there’s something uniquely enjoyable about a striker partnership, especially the big man-little man tandem. A combination between two forwards with completely different skillsets, helping each other work their way around the defense, is an increasingly rare play at the highest level of the game. Inter Milan is one of the only teams competing for trophies that gives us this little bit of joy alongside its success. Lukaku and Martinez have been good statistical complements, too. Playing like a traditional target man, Lukaku usually sits a bit deeper than Martinez, wins 50-50 challenges, and holds the ball up to give his midfielders and wingbacks some time to get forward. He’s asked to find the right spaces to receive the ball when Inter are out of possession, and he rarely presses. Martinez, on the other hand, is constantly pressuring defenders and looking to make runs behind them. He’s a high-volume shooter who has actually been a bit unlucky with his finishing so far this season. If Lukaku is unable to keep up his impressive scoring clip, Martinez could pick up the slack in the second half of the season. Inter’s primary attacking threat has been to get the ball up to Lukaku quickly, and have him flick the ball on for Martinez or make a smart pass. The Nerazzurri are Serie A’s third-most direct team. They have the third-fewest attempted dribbles and the second-fewest completed dribbles, according to StatsBomb. Those numbers might come up as Lukaku works himself towards full fitness. As impressive as Lukaku’s performances at Inter have been, he’s probably performing at less than 100 percent. Following some harsh criticism from Gary Neville over the summer, Lukaku admitted he was overweight, saying he had a digestive problem he is combatting with the help of a nutritionist. Early in the season, Lukaku was exceptional at winning the ball in the air and bullying defenders to open up space for his teammates, but he was missing his trademark pace. With each game, he has looked a bit more dynamic. Against Napoli, he opened the scoring with an impressive 50-yard run before his shot. Until recently, Lukaku has needed Martinez to do a lot of running for him. Martinez having more defensive pressures than Lukaku will likely continue by design, but the Argentine probably won’t have to do all of the running from now on. Martinez should also improve as a finisher. The fact Martinez has been less clinical than Lukaku in their time together was to be expected. He’s just 22, and in his second season in Serie A. But Martinez scored at a decent clip during his first season and a half as a starter in Argentina before really picking it up in the months before he moved to Inter. During his last season in Argentina, Martinez scored four goals in the first half of the campaign, then 14 in the second half. He’s now been an Inter regular for the same period of time, and has similarly improved over time. He has 14 goals in 23 games this season across all competitions after scoring nine times in 35 games last year. Martinez and Lukaku have both been a joy to watch, and extremely effective for Inter this season despite not operating at full speed. If Inter goes on to win the Scudetto, their strike partnership — how good it has been, and how much better it can become — will be the biggest reason why.+++1
A Spanish soccer club suspended its manager after his nudes were leaked online By Zito Madu@_Zeets  Jan 7, 2020, 3:52pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Deportivo v Malaga - La Liga SmartBank Photo by Quality Sport Images/Getty Images In what has to be one of the all-time weirdest reasons for someone to be disciplined by his club, Malaga manager, Víctor Sánchez del Amo, has been suspended due to an alleged explicit video of him going viral on Twitter. The video shows the manager in his underpants, before holding his penis to the screen. It has routinely been re-uploaded whenever Twitter has gone about deleting it for violating the platform’s policies. Christian Machowski @Christian_ESEM Malaga head coach Victor Sánchez del Amo suspended by the club after explicit video of him goes viral. https://twitter.com/MalagaCF/status/1214617737563119617 … Málaga CF   @MalagaCF MCFNews| COMUNICADO OFICIAL   http://bit.ly/37L2BFq #Entidad View image on Twitter 22 10:45 AM - Jan 7, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 15 people are talking about this Before he was suspended, del Amo tweeted out a message about the video, in which he denounced anyone sharing the video, stating that his privacy was being violated. He wrote that the spread of the video was being orchestrated by extortionists who were trying to blackmail him for money. He claimed to have reported the case to the police. Del Amo’s statement makes his suspension even more bizarre. It seems the club is punishing the manager for being the victim of extortion, or at the very least, having a private video released without his consent. It’s certainly a moment of embarrassment for the manager and for the club, but the maliciousness of a few shady opportunists seems to have put the manager’s job in jeopardy. There’s of course a lot that is not known about the case, including whether Del Amo knows the perpetrators in question or what could have potentially lead to such an event where he was targeted, but there’s little that can justify the violation of someone’s private life like this. For now, it appears the manager has been publicly attacked and the club wants the situation to go away as fast as possible, even if that means distancing themselves from Del Amo.+++1
Sam Kerr made her Chelsea debut and it was ... eventful 3 No goals for Kerr, but it was hardly a quiet first game in England By Graham MacAree  Jan 5, 2020, 3:43pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Chelsea v Reading - Barclays FA Women’s Super League Photo by Catherine Ivill/Getty Images Sam Kerr’s blockbuster move to Chelsea — perhaps the biggest signing in the history of the Women’s Super League — may have been announced in November, but thanks to the British transfer system, we’ve had to wait until this year for her to make her debut for the Blues. That debut came in a league match against Reading, and Kerr was thrown straight into the starting lineup. The striker was substituted in the 77th minute with her team 2-1 up, but managed to pack a truly silly amount of action into her time on the pitch. Let’s recap. Minute Two BBC Sport   @BBCSport A rare miss for Sam Kerr. She very nearly had an instant impact on her Chelsea debut! WSL   http://bbc.in/2Qqwrt6 Embedded video 147 4:34 AM - Jan 5, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 23 people are talking about this Given the chance to immediately open her account with the Blues after being played clean through on goal, Kerr produced an enormously un-Kerrian finish and blazed into the Kingsmeadow crowd instead. We’ll blame it on the nerves. Minute 16 She’s On The Ball @ShesOnTheBall1 Welcome to the WSL Sam Kerr. #WSL #BarclaysWSL #SamKerr #CheRea Embedded video 15 5:05 AM - Jan 5, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy See She’s On The Ball's other Tweets The visitors had taken a shock lead just seconds before an even more shocking tackle. The British sometimes call this sort of challenge ‘agricultural,’ presumably because it has the feel of a combine harvester trundling inexorably through a family of mice. Fortunately, Kerr’s feet weren’t set by the time Grace Moloney decided to do whatever it is that’s meant to be, so she was able to keep playing. And eventually ... Minute 40 She turned up with the equaliser. And what an equaliser. Sure. Chelsea probably shouldn’t be very proud of being behind for so long at home against a team whose goalkeeper had been sent off, but the first goal of the Kerr era was worth the wait. The goal itself came off the right boot of Bethany England, which is a little surprising considering that it was England’s place that seemed most at risk with Kerr’s arrival, but that’s not to say that the new arrival wasn’t involved. Far from it: Barclays FA Women's Super League   @BarclaysFAWSL 🇦🇺 @samkerr1   @Bethany_Eng15   Neat, clever build-up play with a finish to match! Embedded video 1,195 5:15 AM - Jan 5, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 204 people are talking about this That, readers, is a one-two taken to its purest possible form. A slick first-time pass between the a defender’s legs was met by the sort of backheel you can only pull off if you’re one of the top players in the world, and suddenly England was clean through, able to round the hitherto unbeatable Rachael Laws and slot home for 1-1. Kerr would have preferred a debut goal to a debut assist, of course, but as debut assists go that backheel wasn’t half bad. She didn’t get her goal in the second half, either. Instead, she found herself entirely upstaged by ... Minute 64 Barclays FA Women's Super League   @BarclaysFAWSL What a finish!  @ChelseaFCW lead courtesy of this fine effort from @guro_reiten Embedded video 1,154 6:02 AM - Jan 5, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 230 people are talking about this Holy hell, Guro Reiten. Yes, this is a post about Sam Kerr, but right now Sam Kerr is mostly a vector to talk about Reiten’s glorious finish. Laws shut down Kerr one-on-one with a smart kicksave, but the rebound ballooned to Reiten, lurking just outside the box. Most footballers would probably have opted to control and recycle the play with the goalkeeper stranded. Reiten was having none of that cowardly nonsense, producing a miraculous side-footed volley that met the ball as it was dropping from the sky and sent it on its way to the top corner with a lob of such delicacy that it might as well have been constructed by a team of crack horologists. I honestly have no idea why Reiten tried this shot, let alone how she pulled it off with such astonishing panache. But I’m very glad she did. Goalkeeper rebounds don’t count as assists in the official statistics, but I’m giving Kerr one in my heart anyway for setting up a truly jaw-dropping goal. The debutante was substituted a few minutes later, but it’s fair to say that she left her mark on the game. Two one-on-one misses, a brilliant backheel assist and a red card drawn? That’s not a bad way to introduce yourself to London.+++1
Harry Kane suffers left hamstring tear, out indefinitely 138 An update, but a maddeningly obtuse one. By Dustin Menno@dustingm  Jan 3, 2020, 4:48pm GMT Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Southampton FC v Tottenham Hotspur - Premier League Photo by Michael Steele/Getty Images We have been waiting for an update on Harry Kane, and now we’ve got one, but it’s not the one we wanted, nor does it give a whole lot of information. Tottenham Hotspur posted a short news item on Kane on the official club website, announcing that Harry has a confirmed tear of his left hamstring, sustained in the second half of Spurs’ 1-0 loss at Southampton on Saturday. The two sentence statement goes on to say that he will undergo treatment with the club’s medical staff who will continue to monitor him going forward. That’s it. It’s maddeningly obtuse — the club’s not going to give the game away about how long he might be out in this latest injury, which is frustrating, but also completely understandable. I’m not a doctor and don’t play one on TV either, but it wouldn’t surprise me if Kane is out for at least a month, possibly longer. That means that the striker position is most likely going to be filled by a combination of Son Heung-Min, who recently returned from a 3-match suspension, Lucas Moura, and possibly (maybe) Troy Parrott. Tottenham’s next match is this Sunday at Middlesbrough in the FA Cup, and they play home to Liverpool in the Premier League on Saturday, January 11. Update: According to Dave Hytner in the Guardian, Kane’s injury is a “serious tear,” which I take to mean probably a grade 3, and Kane will not return to before March. Yikes.+++1
Here’s why holding the women’s World Cup every 2 years would be really dumb 7 If FIFA really wants to help women’s soccer, there are way better ideas than diluting its greatest event. By Kim McCauley@lgbtqfc  Dec 20, 2019, 12:02pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options The United States women’s national team celebrating and holding up the 2019 World Cup trophy while confetti falls around them. FIFA president Gianni Infantino is really good at coming up with bad ideas that generate a lot of short-term cash. On Friday morning, he revealed the organization is seriously considering holding the women’s World Cup every two years instead of every four. The idea was proposed by French FA president Noel La Graet, and Infantino liked it enough to float it publicly. Here’s what Infantino told Sky Sports: “[Le Graet] said we should organise the Women’s World Cup every two years instead of every four years because it has such a big and positive impact on the women’s game. This is something we need to consider and we are considering it. There are a lot of exciting points with regards to women’s football in the next few years.” Infantino is right that the World Cup has a big impact on the women’s game, and a more frequent event would certainly raise awareness and investment. At least, at first. But there are several reasons why this is an extremely bad idea. Here are four of them. RELATED The women’s World Cup bump was actually real It devalues women’s soccer’s most valuable product The World Cup and Olympics are so valuable precisely because they only happen once every four years. A can’t-miss event becomes a lot more missable if it starts occurring twice as often. Eventually, viewership and ticket sales will decline, which will cause sponsorship and TV rights sales to decline. Show a little restraint, Gianni. It devalues the greater international soccer ecosystem If there’s a World Cup every two years, suddenly the European Championships and Olympics need to be seriously rearranged, or no longer feature world-class players. Other continental tournaments like the Asian Cup, Copa America and Africa Cup of Nations will never reach the level of prestige they have in the men’s game, which will limit the number of FAs willing to seriously invest in their women’s programs. If FIFA actually wants to grow the women’s game, it should figure out what it can do to assist confederations in making their regional tournaments the best that they can be. FIFA needs to invest in a stronger club game more than the World Cup Men’s international soccer is so strong because of the club game that feeds it. This is not a chicken-or-the-egg situation, we know which comes first: Strong clubs have to exist before international soccer can reach its full potential. Right now, there are fewer than 50 truly serious women’s clubs around the world. FIFA should focus its time and energy on fixing that. There’s already enough money in football to build up women’s soccer without changing the World Cup FIFA does not need to hold the World Cup twice as often to generate money to invest in women’s football. It already has billions to invest in women’s football. It can simply decide to do more for existing competitions right now if it genuinely wants to improve the standard of global women’s football and encourage more women to play the game.+++1
Fixing Moise Kean is Carlo Ancelotti’s top priority at Everton Everton has lofty Premier League ambitions. Mending Moise Kean’s confidence will make the biggest difference in whether they shake up the top six hegemony. By Kim McCauley@lgbtqfc  Dec 18, 2019, 1:11pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Photo of Moise Kean walking off the pitch with his head hung low after being subbed off by Duncan Robinson, who is standing next to Kean and looking away from him. Duncan Ferguson’s tenure as interim manager of Everton is winding down, and it’ll probably be most memorable for what he did to Moise Kean over the weekend. Big Dunc inexplicably substituted Kean in stoppage time, just 20 minutes after bringing him into the game. His explanation for the substitution made no sense. If he wanted to waste time, he could have subbed off anyone else. If he needed fresh legs, it would have made more sense to take off someone who was tired. There are two realistic possibilities here: Ferguson was trying to send some kind of message to Kean, or he simply forgot how little time Kean had been on the pitch. Match of the Day   @BBCMOTD Duncan Ferguson has had his say on *that* Moise Kean substitution... Embedded video 1,836 9:32 AM - Dec 15, 2019 Twitter Ads info and privacy 547 people are talking about this Either way, Kean looked shellshocked by the decision, and he’s not a player who needs his confidence rattled at the moment. The 19-year-old striker, who arrived from Juventus for €30 million over the summer, is simultaneously Everton’s most talented and worst performing player. Kean has the physical and technical tools to be the best player Everton’s ever had in the Premier League era. He found the back of the net 12 times in Serie A as a teenager, and has an outstanding scoring record in an Italy shirt. He’s built like a brick house, lightning quick, an elite dribbler and a technically superb finisher. But he has yet to show off his talent since moving to England. Kean hasn’t scored for Everton in 12 appearances, and he’s not doing much to make up for it, either. According to data from StatsBomb, Kean isn’t setting up chances for his teammates nor taking a lot of quality shots, and he contributes less defensively than almost every other forward in the league. It probably hasn’t helped that recently fired Everton manager Marco Silva didn’t want Kean in the first place. The Athletic reported that Kean was not on the list of targets agreed upon by Silva and Everton sporting director Marcel Brands, but a deal was eventually engineered by Kean’s powerful agent, Mino Raiola. As distasteful as all that might sound to Toffees, and as poorly as Kean has performed, his signing should still be seen as a coup for the club. Everton is desperate to break the Premier League’s top six monopoly, but it doesn’t have the financial means to do so. Getting the most out of Kean is the standard it has to meet in order to challenge England’s best teams. Doing so will have to wait until next season, most likely. The Toffees are seven points off a European place, and even perfect management won’t turn a listless Kean into an elite player over night. But thankfully for both club and player, there’s reason for optimism. He’s about to get a new lease on life at Goodison Park, with the Toffees expected to hire experienced manager Carlo Ancelotti this week. Presumably, a decent chunk of the job interview was spent on what Ancelotti will do to turn around Everton’s struggling wonderkid. Ancelotti’s history suggests that he’ll have a number of ideas to get Kean firing. He’s a tactically agnostic coach who has never been married to one system. He has consistently built around the strengths and weaknesses of his teams, rather than force players to adhere to a system. He was famous for running narrow systems without wingers at Milan, and continued to do so at Chelsea, though he utilized formations with wide players later in his Blues tenure. At Real Madrid, Ancelotti created a morphing formation that got the most out of Cristiano Ronaldo by letting him attack on the left wing while shifting another player into what would normally be his defensive position so that he could stay up top. Ancelotti’s Bayern Munich and Napoli tenures weren’t as successful, but he mostly used 4-3-3 formations that resembled those of his predecessors at each club. Ancelotti is coming into an Everton team that has no reason to believe it can crack the top six this year, nor any reason to believe relegation is likely, which gives him some room to experiment. He will have the time and leeway he needs to tinker with Kean. And turning around Kean’s career should be Ancelotti’s top priority for the rest of the season. Silva and Ferguson seem to have damaged Kean’s confidence, and the player himself surely deserves some responsibility for his performance, too. But he’s still the squad’s biggest talent. Kean isn’t just another struggling young player. He’s the key to Everton meeting its ambitions. And in Ancelotti’s hands, he has a second chance to become everything they hoped.+++1
Soccer is very good at making me want to log off forever Between the Mesut Ozil/Arsenal/China controversy and Serie A’s racist monkey paintings, maybe we should ignore soccer for a while. By Kim McCauley@lgbtqfc  Dec 16, 2019, 1:23pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Mesut Ozil sitting on the bench for Arsenal. After taking a quick look through the soccer news on Monday, I would very much like to unplug my internet, throw my phone into a river, and live out the rest of my days in a cave. First up, Mesut Özil has been officially cancelled in China after criticizing the Chinese government on Instagram for its treatment of Uighur Muslims. Arsenal, having learned from the Houston Rockets debacle that this was going to mess with their money, put out a cowardly statement in response. “Regarding the comments made by Mesut Özil on social media, Arsenal must make a clear statement. The content published is Özil’s personal opinion. As a football club, Arsenal has always adhered to the principle of not involving itself in politics.” Predictably, it didn’t matter. Arsenal’s match against Manchester City got pulled from Chinese television anyway and they’re being inundated with demands to fire Özil, which would cost them about £60 million. If they don’t get rid of him, they might lose more than that in lost business. They gained absolutely nothing from throwing their player under the bus and showed their ass at the same time. That story is somehow less stupid than the one that came out of Serie A, who have decided to fight racism by paying an artist a lot of money to do monkey paintings. The idea is that racists will stop calling black people monkeys if they can see that we are all monkeys, I guess? footballitalia @footballitalia The Lega #SerieA announced its series of anti-racism initiatives, including a representative from every team and art works https://www.football-italia.net/147742/serie-anti-racism-initiative … #KickItOut #NoToRacism #SerieATIM View image on Twitter 985 7:33 AM - Dec 16, 2019 Twitter Ads info and privacy 1,380 people are talking about this footballitalia @footballitalia · Dec 16, 2019 The Lega #SerieA announced its series of anti-racism initiatives, including a representative from every team and art works https://www.football-italia.net/147742/serie-anti-racism-initiative … #KickItOut #NoToRacism #SerieATIM View image on Twitter footballitalia @footballitalia To answer your inevitable questions: a) Yes, it's real. b) The artist uses monkeys in all his paintings. They hired him specifically for this project. c) Yes, it's really real. d) @SerieA_EN see nothing wrong with monkeys in an anti-racism message. e) Yes, honestly, it's real. 3,261 8:00 AM - Dec 16, 2019 Twitter Ads info and privacy 1,128 people are talking about this Anyway, the lesson here is never assume anyone who runs a big company is smarter than you. If you want to be the CEO of Arsenal FC or Serie A, I promise that you are smart enough to do it. I’m going to go take a two-week nap now.+++1
Thomas Almeida cleared to return two years after eye surgery, still aims for UFC belt 4 By Guilherme Cruz@guicruzzz  Jan 21, 2020, 2:00pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Thomas Almeida (pictured, blue gloves) emerged as one of the most exciting bantamweights when he joined the UFC in 2014. Esther Lin, MMA Fighting Almost two years after announcing he was out of a UFC fight due to a left eye issue that required surgery, Thomas Almeida is finally “100 percent” cleared by the doctors to enter the cage again. “Thominhas” hasn’t fought since a loss to Rob Font in January 2018. After sparring for the first time in many months, Almeida is getting his rhythm back while waiting for a call from the promotion. The ideal scenario would be a fight at UFC Brasilia on March 14, he said, but “fighting is what matters the most.” “Health comes first,” Almeida told MMA Fighting. “An athlete must know how to deal with this. Highs and lows, being active or inactive. I needed that time off to rest, and I used that to recover from other injuries as well. I’m ready now, so let’s go for it.” The Chute Boxe fighter said he treated many injuries he accumulated over his busy schedule as a fighter, competing 25 times in seven years, but nothing as serious as his left eye issues. “I went to Los Angeles to get cleared by the doctor, and now I’m cleared. That’s extra motivation for me,” Almeida said. “I’m gonna focus now and wait for the UFC to book my next fight. I got wood to burn. I already spoke with my manager and he’s on it to set something up.” Almeida bursted onto the scene as a 17-0 knockout artist from Brazil when he signed with the UFC and beat Tim Gorman in his promotional debut in 2014. Thominhas was on a roll the next year, knocking out Yves Jabouin, Brad Pickett and Anthony Birchak before tasting defeat for the first time against future champion Cody Garbrandt. Victorious in only one of his last four, Almeida returns “a more experienced man, who studies the game and focuses on the details a lot more.” The next fighter to share the eight-sided cage with him is just a formality, he says, but taking a tune-up fight after such a long layoff is not something he even considers. “I was never a guy to mention names,” Almeida said. “I’ll be ready for whoever the UFC offers. I’ll train hard and do my work, which is brawl, like I’ve always done.” If his body permits, the 28-year-old talent plans to stay as active as he was in his heyday and vows to be as aggressive as every Chute Boxe fighter. The ultimate goal remains the same, which is “become UFC champion.” “I can’t change who I am,” Almeida said. “I was raised in brawls, but I have to be smart and know when it’s time to walk forward and engage. You’ll see next time I fight. I can’t talk too much. I don’t like to talk too much, I like to do.”+++1
Morning Report: Jorge Masvidal ‘moving on’ from Conor McGregor bout: ‘I would take a lot more pleasure in dismantling Usman’s face’ 57 By Jed Meshew@JedKMeshew  Jan 21, 2020, 8:00am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Esther Lin, MMA Fighting Let the games begin. On Saturday night, Conor McGregor knocked out Donald Cerrone at UFC 246, reasserting himself as a going concern in the UFC. The win set McGregor up for a number of other potential bouts, including a lightweight title shot against the winner of Khabib Nurmagomedov and Tony Ferguson, or a return to boxing for a rematch with Floyd Mayweather. But the most likely fight might be a battle with Jorge Masvidal who rose to stardom last year with a trio of impressive wins, including claiming the inaugural “BMF” title belt. Except there’s only one problem: Masvidal is no longer interested. Masvidal was sitting cageside for UFC 246, sporting an outfit McGregor himself wore ahead of his boxing match with Mayweather. The move may have backfired on Masvidal though as in the post-fight press conference, McGregor seemed much less interested in facing Masvidal than he had previously seemed. Well that’s no skin off the BMF champion’s nose, as Masvidal told Ariel Helwani yesterday that he’s moving on from a potential Conor fight. “He don’t want the fight so I don’t give a f*ck no more,” Masvidal said. “I’m moving on from that fight. This dude didn’t want the fight. I’m not here to bully. I guess it’s Usman’s head. He sealed Usman’s fate now.” Now to be clear, McGregor did not say he no longer wanted to fight Masvidal. In fact, McGregor still said he’d be willing to fight “Gamebred” but it was clear his enthusiasm for the bout had waned, following UFC 246. However, Masvidal’s management team has suggested an interim welterweight title fight between the two while current champion Kamaru Usman heals up. That kind of carrot could be what it takes to entice McGregor and if that’s the case, Masvidal says he’s for it, though at this point he’s still leaning towards a genuine welterweight title shot. “That’d be good too, if Conor wanted to do that,” Masvidal said. “One of these two guys is gonna have to scrap with me. I’m leaning right now towards Usman, the way he’s been talking, the sh*t he’s been saying, but if Conor wants it, we’ll get it done. It won’t be hard to get it done but I’m not going to sit here and entertain bullsh*t and stuff, you know? I just want to scrap.” Of course, competing against McGregor would have its own benefits, namely on the monetary side. But Masvidal says that, all things being equal, he’d rather fight Usman because he has a personal dislike for the welterweight champion. “I make a considerably larger paycheck with Conor but if it’s on the personal side, if it’s all potatoes and tomatoes being the same, I would take a lot more pleasure in dismantling Usman’s face than I would Conor’s,” Masvidal explained. “I would have a sincere joy inside of me like a kid on Christmas opening numerous gifts if Usman was the dude that I got to baptize. “There is something about his face. I don’t like it, it doesn’t sit well with me. I don’t like his attitude either. These little comments of ‘who?’ I have been doing this 16 f*cking years. I’m the fighter of the year, and I’m at your f*cking weight class and you’re going to be as corny and a petty-ass troll and say ‘who?’ “The dude ain’t go no personality. He has 17 different f*cking personalities but not one of them is made for TV. So I want to f*ck his ass up.” Unfortunately for Masvidal, after Usman won his welterweight title defense against Colby Covington at UFC 245, “The Nigerian Nightmare” began singing a similar tune to McGregor, showing less interest in a Masvidal matchup and calling out Leon Edwards as the guy he thinks is most deserving of a 170 pound title shot. That has only added to Masvidal’s desire to beat Usman. “There’s a ranking system and I’m ranked in the system,” Masvidal said. “He wants to fight the guy that’s ranked below me that he already beat. He says that’s the tougher fight. He sounds like one hell of a politician to me. And I don’t like politicians.” Also unfortunately for Masvidal, Usman is currently sidelined with a hand injury so he may be stuck waiting for awhile anyway. But when he does finally get his welterweight shot, he didn’t mince his words. “Usman, you punk motherf*cker,” Masvidal said. “Look me in my eyes Usman when you see this interview and know that nothing but the truth comes from me. You’re f*cking dead.” MUST-READ STORIES Praise. Dana White praises Conor McGregor’s “unbelievable” UFC 246 performance. Slow down. Dana White: Paulo Costa ‘needs to pump the brakes and slow down,’ wait for Adesanya vs. Romero. Ouch. Maycee Barber suffers torn ACL during loss to Roxanne Modafferi at UFC 246. $$$. Conor McGregor, ‘Cowboy’ Cerrone and Holly Holm lead final salaries for UFC 246. VIDEO STEW UFC 246 Coffee Talk. Top ESPN+ moments for the UFC, one year in. LFA 80 highlights. Felice Herrig telling a story about getting into a street fight in Vegas. Cowboy getting worked by Marky Mark in the trailer for his new movie. LISTEN UP The Co-Main Event. Discussing UFC 246 and the fallout from it. Anik & Florian. Recapping UFC 246 and previewing UFC Raleigh. SOCIAL MEDIA BOUILLABAISSE This is the real fight to make. George Wallace   @MrGeorgeWallace Look, the @UFC knows my terms. $35m guarantee and make eye gouging legal and so forth View image on Twitter 2,054 9:39 AM - Jan 19, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 159 people are talking about this George Wallace   @MrGeorgeWallace Replying to @MrGeorgeWallace @ufc Also I must be able to gouge his genitalia and whatnot. All gouging must be in play for this fight or I won't do it. All of my training has involved gouging. 902 9:43 AM - Jan 19, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 56 people are talking about this Kamaru Usman. KAMARU USMAN   @USMAN84kg It’s really sad and scary that we live in a world where someone can wake up only with the intentions to cause harm to someone else. Whomever it was that did what you did Saturday night, Just know that KARMA catches us all   . 7,543 8:33 AM - Jan 20, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 1,337 people are talking about this KAMARU USMAN   @USMAN84kg Who’s out indefinitely?? 1,811 2:11 PM - Jan 20, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 304 people are talking about this KAMARU USMAN   @USMAN84kg For all you real fans out there that know what’s up @GamebredFighter is doing everything possible to avoid taking this L @danawhite has spoken so STFU and take this ass whooping like the journeyman you are and then you can go fight Conor #OnceaBumalwaysaBum 5,874 2:31 PM - Jan 20, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 1,368 people are talking about this Statement. Askren on Maycee’s loss. Respect. Brian Kelleher   @brianboom135 Shout out to Jorge @GamebredFighter View image on Twitter 2,880 10:48 AM - Jan 19, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 146 people are talking about this Johnny Walker at TriStar. For my money, Boss Logic’s best poster by far.+++1
LeBron James says watching son play broke gameday routine NBC Sports Dan Feldman NBC SportsJan 21, 2020, 11:32 AM Yahoo Newsletter Get all the sports news you need, direct to your inbox. Email Address example@yahoo.com Sign Up By subscribing, you are agreeing to Yahoo's Terms and Privacy Policy Has LeBron James prioritized playing with his son over winning? That question has swirled around the league, especially with LeBron signing with the Lakers – a move his friend Dwyane Wade described as a lifestyle decision. Even LeBron’s agent, Rich Paul, didn’t emphasize winning when comparing LeBron’s move to Los Angeles with him going to the Heat and back to the Cavaliers. Yesterday, LeBron watched Bronny play in Springfield, Mass., then drove to Boston to play the Celtics. The Lakers lost by 32, and LeBron acknowledged the 180-mile roundtrip disrupted his game-day routine. LeBron, via ESPN: I’ll break every routine in my life for my family. Listen, if the guys is with me, they’re going to make sure I get back safe. But my routine was broke today. But I can care less about it if I’m seeing my family, my wife and my daughter and my kids. So, it’s a unique opportunity to see my son live play that close to where I’m at. So, I can care less about this. This right here is all secondary when it comes to my family. So, nothing else matters. Does LeBron still want to win? Of course. But it’s also impossible to summon the same hunger he had when chasing his first championship and then trying to win for Cleveland and cement his legacy. Priorities change. At age 35, LeBron has a different perspective on work-life balance than he did when he was younger. LeBron will undoubtedly face criticism for saying this. It’s easy to tell someone else – especially someone on a team people cheer for – to put his job ahead of his family. It’s much harder to put your own job in front of your own family. This is why it was absurd for LeBron to question his Lakers teammates last year on whether basketball was the biggest thing in their life. It’s not the biggest thing in his life! Listen to former NBA champions reminisce about a title run. They often crow about how devoted they were to the team, putting all other distractions – even family – aside. It’s admirable until you consider how disturbing it is. There will always be players hungrier than others for a championship. That’s their advantage in basketball (at least until they burn out), though not necessarily life. It doesn’t sound like that’s LeBron right now. Will he shift more attention toward the Lakers in the playoffs? Probably. It’s easier not to give full focus for a regular-season game, especially with the Lakers four games up in the Western Conference. But LeBron’s family isn’t disappearing come April, May and June. He’s going to care about his wife and children rather than be totally consumed with his job. And he’s not going to apologize for that.+++1
James heads to Springfield to see son before playing Celtics The Associated Press	The Associated PressJan 21, 2020, 10:11 AM Yahoo Newsletter Get all the sports news you need, direct to your inbox. Email Address example@yahoo.com Sign Up By subscribing, you are agreeing to Yahoo's Terms and Privacy Policy James heads to Springfield to see son before playing CelticsView photos Los Angeles Lakers forward LeBron James (23) leaps for a pass as he is covered by Boston Celtics forward Gordon Hayward (20) during the first half of an NBA basketball game in Boston, Monday, Jan. 20, 2020. (AP Photo/Charles Krupa) More BOSTON (AP) -- Lakers star LeBron James took in his son's high school game in Springfield, Massachusetts, on Monday afternoon before returning to Boston to face the Celtics. “It's truly a blessing, and I didn't mind going down to Springfield to check the game out,” James said after the Celtics beat the Lakers 139-107. “The only bad thing is I took two L's. The James gang took two L's today. But there's always better days.” During the high school game, a fan sitting in one of the first few rows was seen throwing something at Bronny James as he waited to inbound the ball. According to a video retweeted by the elder James, the referee noticed and hesitated before resuming the game. “I didn't see it until I got here, actually. I was on the complete opposite end of the floor,” James said at his locker in the TD Garden. “I did see the referee stop the game or stop the inbounds and the cop go (up into the stands), but I didn’t know what happened until the video evidence was showed to me when I got here."James retweeted the video and added the message: “Hating has no age limit! #JamesGang is build for it and well equipped.” “It's just disrespectful," James said. "And it was a little kid, too. I don't know how old that little kid was. I don't know if he learned that on his own, or he learned it at home.” James had 15 points and 13 assists for the Lakers in their worst loss of the season. Asked if traveling about 90 miles on a game day affected his pregame routine, he said: “I'd break every routine in my life for my family."“My routine was broken today, but I could care less about it if I was seeing my family, my wife and my daughter and my kids," he said. "It was a unique opportunity to see my son live, play that close to where I'm at. So, I could care less about, this right here, is secondary when it comes to my family.” James reportedly took a helicopter instead of a 90-mile drive each way to Springfield, the home of the Basketball Hall of Fame, for the HoopHall Classic. But asked how he beat the traffic, James said: “I walked.”+++1
18-Year-Old Sinner Completes Australian Open Debut Win Jan 21 2020 ATP Staff Former World No. 3 Cilic cruises Eighteen-year-old Jannik Sinner needed only eight points to complete his first-round win on his Australian Open debut. The reigning Next Gen ATP Finals champion let slip a break advantage in the third set of his match against Aussie qualifier Max Purcell on Monday before rain washed out play for the rest of the day on the field courts. But Sinner quickly regrouped upon returning to Court 7 on Tuesday, defeating the World No. 216 7-6(2), 6-2, 6-4 after a total of two hours and 19 minutes. "I was up in the score, so it was a little bit easier for me. Obviously I wanted to finish yesterday," Sinner said. "It can be difficult. I tried to go on court with a good mentality, and I started well. That was the key."Watch Live Sinner arrived in Melbourne having never competed in this event — in the main draw, qualifying or the juniors — but he now has his first Grand Slam main draw victory. The Italian will next face Hungarian Marton Fucsovics, who upset another #NextGenATP star, Denis Shapovalov, in the first round. "I still have to study a little bit. I don't know so much about him," Sinner said. "I think [my coach] Riccardo Piatti] knows him a little bit better, so maybe he can give me some good tips for tomorrow."One year ago this week, Sinner lost in the first round of a Futures event in Monastir, Tunisia. At the time, the Italian was No. 549 in the FedEx ATP Rankings. But now at World No. 82, Sinner was never outside of his comfort zone against Purcell, breaking serve five times and winning 42 per cent of his return points. The pair resumed play at 4-4 in the third set, with Purcell serving at 15/30, and Sinner was relentless, breaking two points later with a backhand drop volley. He then finished the match with an overhead to punctuate his victory in style. Ninth seed Roberto Bautista Agut lost the first two hard-court meetings of his ATP Head2Head series against fellow Spaniard Feliciano Lopez. But Bautista Agut defeated Lopez 6-2, 6-2, 7-5 in two hours and 10 minutes to advance in Melbourne. The Australian Open was the site of a Slam breakthrough last year for Bautista Agut, who made the last eight of a major for the first time here. He'd go on to reach the semi-finals at Wimbledon. The consistent baseliner will next play American wild card Michael Mmoh, who beat Spaniard Pablo Andujar 6-2, 6-4, 6-4. Former World No. 3 Marin Cilic, who made the final in Melbourne two years ago, got his tournament off to a good start with a 6-3, 6-2, 6-4 win against #NextGenATP Frenchman Corentin Moutet. The Croat has now made the second round of the season's first Grand Slam in 11 consecutive appearances. Cilic, who needed only one hour and 46 minutes against the lefty Moutet, will next play No. 21 seed Benoit Paire, who battled hard to beat German Cedrik-Marcel Stebe 6-4, 3-6, 6-3, 6-7(2), 6-0 after three hours and 19 minutes. No. 14 seed Diego Schwartzman also faced few difficulties in the first round, easing past Adelaide finalist Lloyd Harris 6-4, 6-2, 6-2 in one hour and 45 minutes. The Argentine broke the South African's serve six times and made only 18 unforced errors. He will play 2019 Next Gen ATP Finals competitor Alejandro Davidovich Fokina, who eliminated qualifier Norbert Gombos 4-6, 6-4, 2-6, 6-3, 6-2, in the second round. Roger Federer, who has won two of the past three Australian Opens, now knows his second-round opponent. He will face Serbian Filip Krajinovic, who survived a three-hour, 54-minute battle against Frenchman Quentin Halys 7-6(7), 7-6(1), 3-6, 4-6, 7-5. Dusan Lajovic continued his strong start to the year, beating 2018 semi-finalist Kyle Edmund 7-6(7), 6-3, 7-6(4). The Serbian, who won four of his six matches during Team Serbia’s title run at the ATP Cup, will face Australian wild card Marc Polmans in the second round.+++1
Nadal In Full Flight For Opening Test Jan 21 2020 ATP Staff Top seed cruises past Dellien on Tuesday Hugo Dellien won plenty of new fans with his inspired effort on Tuesday, but Rafael Nadal handily won their first-round clash at the Australian Open. The top-seeded Spaniard moved past the Bolivian 6-2, 6-3, 6-0 to begin his campaign in Melbourne. "It's been a solid start. I think the third set was a great set. I think I played a very good level of tennis," Nadal said. "The first two, I played with a little more caution... Just trying to play a solid game with not many mistakes. "Then, of course, with an advantage in the score, I tried to play the way that I really believe I need to play if I want to have a positive result here."Nadal moved a step closer to his 20th Grand Slam crown and first title at this event since 2009. But the Spaniard insisted he's not thinking beyond his next match and is only focussed on raising his level. "I think about my practice tomorrow, try to follow up the level of tennis that I played in the third set. That should be my main goal today, no? I need to play at my highest level if I want to keep going in the tournament," Nadal said. "The only thing I can do is put all my efforts on trying to keep going in the best way possible. The rest of the things, the future will see."Watch Live Dellien handled his new surroundings well in the early stages of the match, stepping into his returns and making it clear that he was ready to fight. But despite the Bolivian holding 10 game points in the first four games, Nadal’s relentless baseline slugging proved too strong and he led 5-0 after 39 minutes. The top seed’s only minor blip came as he attempted to serve out the set at 5-1, but he recovered with a strong forehand in the next game to take the early lead. Nadal cleaned up his game in the second set, beefing up his first-serve percentage (54% to 67%) and reducing his error count from the baseline. Although Dellien managed to break at 4-2 to get the set back on serve, the moment only intensified Nadal’s focus. The Spaniard sprinted through eight of the last 10 points for a commanding advantage. The grueling baseline rallies finally took their toll on Dellien and Nadal quickly seized his opportunity. The World No. 1 dominated the final set with a sublime display of power tennis, hitting 18 winners to just five unforced errors to advance in two hours and two minutes. He improved to 62-13 at the first major of the year. Nadal will meet Federico Delbonis in the second round. The Argentine beat Joao Sousa 6-3, 6-4, 7-6(3) in two hours and 18 minutes to reach the second round for the second time. Nadal leads Delbonis 3-0 in their ATP Head2Head series. Fellow Spaniard Pablo Carreno Busta battled past Slovakian Jozef Kovalik 6-4, 3-6, 6-1, 7-6(2). Carreno Busta hammered 41 winners en route to advancing in two hours and 37 minutes. The No. 27 seed will meet Peter Gojowczyk in the second round. The 30-year-old German defeated Christopher Eubanks 7-6(1), 6-3, 4-6, 6-0.+++1
Felix 'Calm And Positive' Despite AO Loss Jan 21 2020 ATP Staff Young Canadian finishes Aussie summer with mixed results World No. 22 Felix Auger-Aliassime followed fellow Canadian #NextGenATP star Denis Shapovalov out of the Australian Open first round after a shock four-set loss to veteran Latvian Ernests Gulbis Tuesday at Melbourne Park. The 19-year-old has had a mixed start to the season after a breakout 2019, when he climbed to a career-high of No. 17 in the FedEx ATP Rankings. Today he made 44 unforced errors, including seven double faults, in a 7-5, 4-6, 7-6(4), 6-4 loss to the 31-year-old World No. 256, who last won a tour-level match at Los Cabos in late July 2019. Auger-Aliassime won just one of four matches at ATP Cup but last week produced some of his best tennis en route to the semi-finals of the Adelaide International, where he pushed eventual champion Andrey Rublev to 6-4 in the third. On Monday, World No. 13 Shapovalov suffered a four-set loss to Hungarian Marton Fucsovics. Watch Live Despite a second consecutive opening-round loss at a major, the 6' 4" right-hander said that he was disappointed, but not alarmed. “Every time you come to Australia the main goal is the Aussie Open, so it’s not good," Auger-Aliassime said. "That’s what the results show. But at the same time I am staying calm and positive because I feel I am not far from playing well and winning matches. “My game was really coming along well in Adelaide and I lost a close one there… I don’t want to lose too much belief over the results of these first few tournaments. I’ll keep my head up and keep doing what I’m doing well and we’ll see what happens next.” Despite starting the year with a modest 3-5 win-loss record, Auger-Aliassime says that he remains positive about the season ahead. “Of course. The season is just starting. This is obviously disappointing and I haven’t swallowed this yet. It’s tough to go out this early. “I felt like my game was coming along well. I felt like I was playing well, a lot different to the past US Open. It’s night and day. I have to talk with my coaches to look in detail at what happened. But I think I’m not far away from playing well.” Auger-Aliassime boasted a 33-23 match record in 2019. But his two match wins at Wimbledon remain his only victories at Grand Slam level in four appearances at the majors. Countryman Vasek Pospisil also exited Tuesday, beaten by 40-year-old Croatian Ivo Karlovic 7-6(4), 6-4, 7-5. In better news for Canadian fans on Tuesday, Milos Raonic completed his match that was halted by rain on Monday, defeating Italian World No. 150 Lorenzo Giustino 6-2, 6-1, 6-3 after dropping just four points on his first serve.+++1
Japan Suffering from Worst Start to a Winter on Record | Many Ski Areas Have Had to Close SnowBrains | January 21, 2020 | Industry NewsIndustry News Japan, worst start winter Organizers are trucking in snow from surrounding areas. Credit: KYODO Ski areas of Japan are famous for being some of the snowiest areas of the world. But not this year. Snowfall figures for December are the lowest on record in Japan, with the dry winter forcing many resorts to shut and also threatening a World Cup ski jumping competition. Related: Why Oh Why Does Japan Get SO Much Snow? Northern Japan saw just 38 percent of its average snowfall in December, with only a “little” snow seen in western Japan, the country’s meteorological agency said. FIS organizers are planning on shipping in snow in for the ski jumping event to take place. “There are various factors behind the small amount of snow this season but climate change is among them,” Motoaki Takekawa, an official from the agency’s global environment section, told AFP. Daisen White Resort in Tottori has been shut since early January after opening over the year-end holiday thanks to a dusting of snow and snowmaking efforts, but since Jan 6 it has been so warm that even the fake snow has melted on the slopes. “The shortage has battered not only our resort but snow-related businesses here such as hotels and rental ski shops,” said Masahiro Ozeki, an official at the resort. The resort partially re-opened on Friday after snow fell on Wednesday. Local media reports that more than a third of ski resorts across Japan have stayed closed since the beginning of the year. Sapporo, Japan Sapporo, Japan Organizers of Sapporo’s famed snow festival have had to hire a record number of trucks to bring in snow from the suburbs and surrounding towns in order to build their famous sculptures. The festival, which runs for three weeks from Jan 31, is a major draw for the region, attracting more than 2.7 million visitors last year. The weather agency warned little relief is expected for ski resort operators.+++1
NEW TO SKIING: EVERYTHING YOU NEED TO KNOW Ski School Questions Ski Lesson FAQs I think you’ll agree with me when I say the first ski trip can be hard. But does it have to be that way? Well, it turns out that by following these handy tips you can dramatically change your first experience of skiing In this blog, we’re going to tell you everything you need to know if you’re new to skiing. To give you a headstart on your first ski trip. New to Skiing: Everything You Need To Know What do you wear skiing? Waterproof Jacket & Pants – Invest in a ski jacket and salopettes (ski trousers in French) that are waterproof. Socks – You need a thin pair of long socks that come up just below the knee. We recommend socks that are made of Merino wool as it not only keeps your feet warm but they also have moisture-wicking properties keeping your feet dry too. Thermals – (Thin layers i.e. leggings and a long-sleeved top to keep you warm.) You want thermals that are comfy and ultra-breathable to keep you warm and dry in changing temperatures. If you want to know more, then check out how to layer for skiing blog. Gloves & a Hat – You’ll need a waterproof pair of gloves, preferably made of leather or Goretex. Top tip: be sure to pack a cosy beanie hat for when you take your helmet off and you’ve got crazy helmet hair! Good Footwear – For walking around the resort you will need a suitable pair of boots or trainers. We recommend a pair of leather or Goretex boots to keep the wet out. Sunglasses & Goggles – You will need sunglasses for bright sunny days & goggles for low visibility days. The snow alone is very bright and goggles keep the top half of your face protected. Don’t forget to pack suncream too otherwise you’ll get a goggle tan. New to skiing Need help packing? Check out our Ski Trip Packing List What equipment do I need to rent? Skis – Skis are two planks that help you glide on the snow. There is no left and right, they are the same. The tip of the ski goes at the front and will be more rounded. The tail of the ski goes at the back and is usually more square in comparison. The edges will be sharp to help you grip on the snow. There will be a rigid binding in the middle that connects your ski boot to the ski. Boots – Correctly fitting boots will transform your skiing or snowboarding experience. Ski boots are a bit strange to walk in, to begin with, but you soon get used to them. To connect your boot and ski, you put your toe in first, make sure your boot in inline with the ski, then push down on your heel until you hear a click. Ski Poles – You will need to rent poles if you choose to ski. You may not need them in your first lesson as you will be focusing on what your feet are doing. Poles are great for helping you balance, pushing yourself along the flatter sections and just being another point of contact with the snow.  But when you develop your skiing further, you will find the poles useful for keeping rhythm when turning. Helmet– Wearing a helmet is compulsory in many resorts now – especially for children. You can either bring a helmet out with you, but it might be easier to rent one in the resort for very little money. It is vital you wear a helmet to protect yourself and we believe in setting a good example to our younger skiers. Not sure where to rent kit? We offer discounts with Skiset, Hervis,  & Ski Service. How many lessons will a beginner skier need? We recommend you take a week’s worth of lessons your first time skiing. This way you get a bit of tuition each day to help you progress throughout the week. You will likely need more than one or two lessons to nail down the basics. Hence why our adult group lessons are perfect for beginners. Not only are they great value for money, but with two hours of instruction each day, you’ll still have plenty of time to ski with family and friends. A lot of people choose to go skiing for a weeks holiday a year. If you think about it, it’s hard to progress at anything if you only do it for 1 week a year. So be patient with yourself, give everything a go and don’t take yourself too seriously. Although you may fall when learning to ski, the majority of beginners don’t actually take any tumbles on their first time skiing. But if you do fall, you’ve got to laugh at yourself and try again. Everyone progresses at different rates and some people learn faster than others. But on average you should start to get to grips with the basics of stopping and turning by the end of the first week. Cruising about the mountain on easy blue & green pistes. Ski with Confidence Want to know what lessons are actually like? Watch our VLOG on learning how to ski Is learning to ski or snowboard difficult? Learning anything can be tricky at times, but with a positive mental attitude, you can achieve anything. With skiing, we firmly believe you should prioritise having fun over anything else. If you fall over, laugh it off and try again. Like any new skill, you need to practice to be perfect. If you are willing to put the time in to improve, you will reap the benefits. Everybody will progress at different rates, but if you are patient and give things a go, you will find learning to ski easy. How to get over the fear of falling? Falling is part of learning, like anything in life. If you fall, you get back up and have another go. Your instructor will be there to help you and tell you how to get back up. They can advise you on what happened, and how you can learn from it. If you ain’t falling – you aren’t trying hard enough! By following your instructor’s tips on how to stand correctly on your skis, this will minimalise your falling. You need to be balanced over both your feet so stay upright, so we suggest practising some balancing exercises before your trip.New to skiing Do I need to be fit to try skiing? Anyone with an average level of fitness can learn to ski, however a little fitness before your holiday goes a long way. A few simple balance and core exercises will benefit your performance greatly. Our friends at Peak Fitness have created some youtube videos for you to have a look at. If you have a previous injury you must tell your instructor and wear a support. We have instructors, specifically trained for teaching people with learning disabilities or physical disabilities, so whatever your level, we can cater to your needs. What age should I start skiing? Anyone can try skiing, no matter your age or ability. You can be a beginner at 85, a beginner at 3 years old or even try skiing if you have problems with your sight. There really are no limitations. Skiing is for everyone and we encourage everyone to discover the joys of skiing. We suggest children start skiing from three years old at the earliest as they have not developed certain muscles to support themselves before that age. It is also hard for children of that age, as their head grows faster than their body and they are a little top-heavy with a helmet on too! New to skiing Concerned about taking your kids skiing for the first time when you’re a beginner yourself? How to keep your family happy on the slopes. Ready to Learn to Ski? We hope to have answered some of your questions and put your mind at ease regarding your first time skiing. The next step is to start planning your ski holiday by deciding which resort to go to, where to stay, travel & ski lessons. Ski holidays these days are so flexible, so if you’re on a budget you can still have a fantastic holiday. For some ideas check out our blog on budget ski holidays.+++1
THE 8 BEST GIFTS FOR A SKIER OR SNOWBOARDER 5 Reasons to Go Skiing for a Long Weekend Have a skier in your life that you’re not sure what to buy for Christmas? Or perhaps you’re really excited for your upcoming ski trip and want a gift that fits the excitement. With Christmas coming quickly and lots of festive fun, don’t waste your time searching for the perfect skier gift. We’ve done it for you. In the list you’ll find the top eight gifts for a skier or snowboarder to help you get the right gift this year. The Eight Best Gifts for a Skier or Snowboarder 1. Clothing & Equipment The Patagonia Men’s retro jacket is a statement piece of clothing that will last for years to come. As well as being practical, it’s also trendy so you’ll fit right in when sliding in to lunch in Val Thorens. We also love the message Patagonia share, and what they do to help protect our planet. To find out more, visit their website. Smith kids pink goggles will make your kids stand out this winter. Smith products have two year warranty, are child friendly & protect their eyes. Your kids will thank you later! Trizski ski carrier is a nifty little gadget to help you carry your skis. We understand that if you’re new to the sport, carrying all the equipment can be rather difficult. By using the Trizski ski carrier you can have a free hand for helping your kids with their kit. 8 gifts for a skier 2. ‘Free Skiing – How to Adapt to the Mountain’ Book By Jimmy Oden. £27.99 Aka the essential bible for big mountain skiers. This is the book which UIAGM mountain guide Jimmy Oden wished he’d had but never found during his formative ski bum years. The content is divided into topical chapters, all including explanatory illustrations and photos: mountain sense, mountain weather, snow & avalanche knowledge, avalanche hazard evaluation, skiing, companion avalanche rescue, first aid & rescue, navigation, ski-related mountaineering skills, glacier skiing, steep skiing, and ski touring. Best skiing book 3. Personal Training Session Want to help your friends or relatives get ski fit before their holiday? By booking a personal training session with Peak Condition they can get ski fit and develop some strength before hitting the slopes. It may seem like a strange gift, and don’t let them be offended by you joining them too! Here is a little taster of what you are getting yourself in for… Contact Mark at info@peakcondition.org 4. Dinoski Kids Ski Suit If you want to give a totally roar-some new ski outfit to a little one, then this is the ski suit for them. The suit itself is made from recycled plastic bottles and has anti-stain coating so it’s 100% child-friendly.  The Dinoski suits are also practical with over 10k waterproofing, chunky zip toggles for kids to easily use, microfiber insulation for warmth and helmet friendly hoods. It’s cute and practical – what more could you want? Dinoski 5. Powder Magazine Subscription Established in 1972 as “The Skier’s Magazine,” Powder Magazine is dedicated to honest, informative, and entertaining storytelling for a community of loyal and passionate readers dedicated to a life lived among mountains. If they want to stay up to date with the latest gear, have insider knowledge, learn about different ski areas and find out how to improve their technique then this will be a fantastic present. Don’t miss a single issue, give the gift of a subscription now. Present = sorted! 6. Val d’Isère Lego Val D’Isère has partnered with Lego to create a 340 brick lego set, which is a replica of new La Daille gondola. Check out the video below showing you what the lego set looks like. This construction set includes: A gondola (departure & arrival station + 1 cabin) A slope and a slope sign A piste map and a ski rack Fir trees and three figurines You can buy this lego set for €74, on valdisere.ski, at La Daille and Solaise ticket offices and in Le Lounge (Solaise gondola arrival). Don’t miss out! 7. Stocking Fillers If you’re looking for some little presents to add to a stocking, then look no further, we have the best gifts for a skier or snowboarder. Clothing: Trucker hat, beanie hat, ski socks Tools: snowboard multitool, collapsible water bottle, Dakine micro lock (to keep your ski equipment safe) 8 gifts for a skier 8. A Guided Day on the Slopes This is such a great gift with endless opportunities. Gone are the days of giving material things. We think experiences are way better, which is why this is one of our eight best gifts for a skier or snowboarder. With our off-piste lessons or private lessons, you can get that one-to-one treatment. You will advance quicker, learn more about the local area and improve your technique that little bit faster. We can also do ski touring lessons, split-boarding lessons, telemark lessons and more! Just inquire on our website and we can advise you as to which product will suit you best.+++1
TO BAN OR NOT TO BAN, THAT IS THE QUESTION Many of the questions roiling the sport of Athletics these days lie in the realms of redeveloping fan interest, meet restructuring, and performance enhancement, be it via drugs, shoes, or gender. Vaporfly Alphafly These are interesting questions because enhancement has always been the aim of this and every other game. Faster times, higher heights, and father throws have always motivated a goal-setting, can-do species like ours. So the question is where does this striving for enhancement cross the line into an unfair advantage?  It’s an ages-old question shared by every game and sport. Major League Baseball announced this week that the 2017 World Series champion Houston Astros stole catcher’s signals to their pitchers throughout their run to the Series title via an elaborate camera tracking system in center field that relayed the signals to the dugout where simple sound cues alerted the hitter as to what kind of pitch was headed his way. This finding led MLB to sanction the team with a monetary fine, suspensions, and loss of draft picks, while the Astros owner fired the team’s manager and GM.  Now there are questions of how widespread the practice was around the sport. But stealing catchers’ signs by runners on second base or deciphering steal or bunt signs from the opposing team’s third-base coach are as old as the game itself. And there’s always been a bit of a if-you’re-not-cheating-you’re-not-trying” element to baseball that was part of its old hayseed charm, like chewing tobacco. But that was before millions of dollars and the link from chaw to mouth cancer entered the game. So where is the line between what’s legal sign-stealing and illegal advantage?  Is it the sophisticated use of electronics? These type of questions challenge every sport, and it is why there are governing bodies in the first place tasked with making the tough calls. We ditched the honor system a long time ago. To be honest, the one and only way to eliminate the tension between the rules’ breakers and the rules’ makers is not to have human beings involved at all. So there are some built-in limitations.  That said, you do the best you can with the best you’ve got given the frailties the species. But now we enter the realm of this sport, Athletics, where it’s been showing up in the stats that the current enhancement in distance running times are coming more from a new shoe technology than from the men and women wearing them.  So some recalibration seems to be is in order. * And now as reported in the Irish Independent by Cathal Dennehy, after a period of study, World Athletics is perhaps prepared to ban the new stacked midsole/carbon-plate technology that produced the faster times, but keep the records they already produced. Which begs the question, how far out will today’s Vaporfly-produced times last?  Longer than the 1980’s drug-produced but never (publicly) busted times on the track? This is what happens when oversight is late to the party. No problem, BTW, with Eliud Kipchoge’s 2017 Monza Sub2 or 2019 Vienna INEOS 1:59 exhibitions that produced the two fastest marathon-length times in history.  But that’s where the new shoe technology, laser-guided pacing, and interchanging pacer format belongs, in exhibitions, not in sanctioned competitions. So once (and if) the new technology is banned, it’s no longer what to do about the present moving forward, but how to address the records that weren’t produced on a level playing field but atop a stacked midsole. In the never ending question about the future of the sport, I like the distinction made by 1976 U. S. steeplechase Olympian Mike Roche who suggested categories of Track Classic and Open Racing to differentiate between the current and the new. Nobody wants to discourage innovation.  But at the same time, there also needs to be an on-ramp to widespread acceptance where it is the people rather than the technology that is the difference maker in performance. So let’s stage exhibition competitions using the new technologies, but only in an Open Racing division until the governing body determines that accessibility is wide enough to allow it into the Classic format. As Roche pointed out, there is already a precedent to follow. Cross country skiing instituted a new racing category after the skating technique began to win decisively over the old Classic method. As for baseball, they’re still trying to figure out what to do with Pete Rose.  I’ll leave that to them. END+++1
A NEW TRIBUTE TO TOMMY LEONARD TL Tribute It was one year ago that famed Falmouth Road Race founder and legendary Eliot Lounge bartender Tommy Leonard passed away. Now, after a year during which many a glass was lifted in his honor, Tommy will be permanently remembered by the town he helped make famous in running circles around the globe. Today, we received the following message from TL’s good pal Russ Pelletier: “Members of the Falmouth Walk (a TL co-founded charity) have received the support from the Town of Falmouth to install a Tribute to Tommy on Main Street in Falmouth. In addition, the crosswalk located at this beloved Quarterdeck will be renamed “Tommy Leonard Walk Way”. The bronze plaque will acknowledge his many contributions to the Falmouth Walk, the Falmouth Road Race, and his generosity that has been passed down to many. Our goal is to raise $6500 to cover the costs. These funds are to be kept separate from funds that have been raised by the Walk designated to local charities. If we didn’t do that, TL would be sending darts down from the heavens. Should we raise more than the needed amount, the overage would then go to the charities that he and the Walk have supported. This is the 30th anniversary of the Falmouth Walk, and it promises to be a huge success.” Checks should be made out to: “The Falmouth Walk – TL” and send to: Russ Pelletier 137 King Street Falmouth, MA. 02540 For more information, contact Russ at russpjk@aol.com TL at the Quarterdeck in Falmouth+++1
OLD NEW IDEAS FOR ATHLETICS Perhaps one of the ways forward for the sport of athletics in this new decade might be found right in the old Olympic motto itself: Citius, Altius, Fortius. The directive is quite straight forward: Faster, Higher, Stronger. There are no modifiers like “but only by using this or that particular technique”. For instance, in today’s world of precision measurements, why is it still necessary to require long and triple jumpers to hit a specific mark as the starting point of their leaps?  The technology exists to determine the exact landing point of a spacecraft on a distant planet. Perhaps it would be possible to figure an athlete’s precise launch point on an earthbound runway? How many stories, whether apocryphal or not, have we heard about Carl Lewis having jumped 30-feet but in a fouled jump that was never measured? The point of the activity isn’t to identify the athlete with the best board-precision skills, it’s to see who can jump the farthest. Even if just as an exhibition, free them up and see how far they can go. In the high jump, why was it decided that an athlete could only use a one-footed take off? Was it a safety issue?  Altius means altius. It doesn’t say, “but only using a one-footed take off.” In fact, as it’s currently staged, the high jump identifies the athletes who can jump highest using a self-selected, difficult to master technique, rather than who is the highest jumper. They are not always the same. Jackie Joyner-Kersee flat-lining the flop (Mike Powell / Getty Images) Jackie Joyner-Kersee is among the greatest women athletes in history. She told me one time that her husband/coach Bobby Kersee used to chastise her for “having to jump six feet in order to get over the bar at 5’8” because my flop technique was so poor.” In the shot put, hammer throw, and discus, why contain all that bulk within a tiny circle? Doesn’t that, in fact, restrict fortius? If the pole vault can go from ash to bamboo to aluminum to fiberglass to today’s exotic compounds, and today’s shoes are in the process of re-writing the distance record books, and tracks have gone from turf to dirt to cinders to mondo, why can’t the wraps be taken off these other events as well? If the whole purpose of the game is to entertain – and the numbers suggest that fewer people are perceiving the current presentation of athletics as being entertaining – and with so many of the current records being holdovers from a tainted time of drug use, why not institute a 21st century version of these ages-old events? Or at least stage exhibitions to entertain the audience? Who can jump the highest? Simple question. We don’t care how you do it other than by only using your own power. If you want to use a running one-footed flop technique, have at it. But if you want to try to get over the same height using a series of gymnastic round-offs with a concluding two-footed backflip take-off, good luck with that, too. As one friend suggested, “getting over the bar the best way you can should be the goal. (Baltimore Ravens QB) Lamar Jackson is not a conventional pocket passer, but he still gets himself and the team across the goal line his way and it still counts.👍👀” Since taking over as World Athletics president, Sebastian Coe has been engaged in a widespread attempt to clean up then relaunch the sport that brought him fame and fortune more than a generation ago. Throughout that generational time, many other sports have altered previous rules of the road in order to maintain or increase public interest.  The XFL just relaunched while introducing some innovative rules changes to further entertain the audience while at the same time protect its players. Professional sports are in the entertainment business. They are not a Vatican conclave of red-robed Cardinals looking to maintain 4th century traditions. (Hell, even they changed at Vatican II. When I was a kid, we couldn’t eat anything after midnight Saturday if we wanted to take communion at Sunday morning mass.) At this moment in time for athletics there are no wrong answers other than the rigidity of standing pat. As one innovative shoe company keeps telling us, Just Do It!+++1
WILL 2020 BRING NEW INSPIRATION? For those with enough wear on their tires, “twenty twenty” will always sound more like an eyesight assessment than a calendar year. Yet here we are, the dash between the 20s now erased and our vision not quite what it once was (what is?) Yesterday, Staten Island friend Jeff Benjamin posted his first opinion column on Larry Eder’s enduring RunBlogRun.com website. It was a good one, too – Waiting For The Next “Frank Shorter Moment” In The New Decade of 2020. Frank Shorter in Munich 1972 (NPR picture) In his post, Jeff wondered when the next inspirational performance like Shorter’s Olympic Marathon gold medal in Munich 1972 might kickstart a renewed interest in running for today’s generation like Frank’s run did for us Baby Boomers. But I wonder. So much has changed over the last half-century. Can that kind of lightning in a bottle ever be recaptured? Running is a transgressive activity, full of fire and fatigue but signifying very little beyond the feeling it arouses in its practitioners. Like music and art, to be done well, running takes time and dedication but offers no promise in terms of a tangible payoff.  Maybe that’s why it was the perfect sport for a generation in opposition to all that had come before. The payoff was in the doing alone, and the fact that our elders didn’t see its merits only added to its lure from our contrarians’ vantage point. Add on that the best guy in the world, Shorter, was soon challenged by the next best guy in the world, Bill Rodgers, and who wouldn’t be motivated?  Guys just like us had risen to the top.  Maybe I could do something, too. * Back in the day, running was both serious and sophomoric, because that was the level of freedom that we enjoyed at the time.  Ours was a fortunate generation in many ways, including having been educated without accruing massive debt in the process. At the same time, rents were low and jobs plentiful. Those factors contributed to a lack of financial pressure that allowed us to fully explore running’s charms without thought to the ‘morrow. Imagine being sophomoric today, not knowing, being blissfully unaware and free from pressure. My father once told me that kids in our Baby Boom era knew more at age 12 than he did at 20. Today, I think we can knock that back to kids at five know more now than we did at 20. * By its nature, training to run well is a primal behavior. No care beyond this, a dogged determination to a single, uncluttered purpose. One’s responsibility is to the training and preparation alone. Anything added will come at the cost of that single focus. 1980s boxing legend Marvelous Marvin Hagler used to set up his training camp in Provincetown, Massachusetts on the tip of Cape Cod. No wife, no kids, no friends, no visitors, just his managers and sparring partners. And for three months he would live in that spartan environment preparing for his next opponent, all the while building up a righteous  anger at the guy for forcing him into that rigid, isolated existence. But the end result was a Hall of Fame career and recognition as one of the best middleweights in boxing history. That’s what world-class sport requires, splendid isolation. Now imagine how many of today’s kids with all the devices of pleasure and ease available to them will be willing to sacrifice all of it to return to a more stripped down existence of run-sleep-eat alone. When I first moved to Boston in 1974 in my $400 auction-bought right-hand-drive post office van, I promised myself never to accumulate more stuff than I could squeeze through the back of its roll-up door. I knew that if I began buying things like a couch or a new car on credit that I’d become beholden to those monthly payments. And while I didn’t want to maintain freedom to just run, I did want to keep myself unburdened to just do a radio show about running. And that meant I needed to spend my days selling advertisements, doing interviews, and producing the show, not taking a job I didn’t want to pay off bills I shouldn’t have accumulated buying crap I’d eventually never need. Today, that stripped down, spartan life is still the norm in those parts of the world where running remains one of the few bootstrap activities that can lift you out of poverty and provide a new path for family and friends. It is where the best runners in the world inspire yet another generation, as did the generation before them. But in America in 2020, there is still too much “I want” to produce the kind of laser-like focus on training that is required to reach the heights once occupied by Shorter in the 1970s. What’s more, even if that focus was more widespread, the competition is much sterner now than back then, while the kind of payoff once available in the day no longer exists either.  And where do you go from there? You know, Jeff, there will be new Frank Shorter moments in 2020, they just wont be coming via the running game. Instead, the new generation’s heroes will be sitting behind gaming controls lighting up computer screens awaiting entry into Olympic competition not realizing that pretty soon their own eyesight will begin to leave 20-20 range behind, too.+++1
THE TWENTY TEENS – THE DECADE’S TOP POSTS As the Twenty Teens come to their conclusion, we join others in looking back at the decade now passing.  Below is the list of top posts on this blog from the last ten years (though the blog only began in early 2011).  Nevertheless, these are the posts that garnered the most reads over the nine years, beginning with Meb Keflezighi‘s miraculous win at the 2014 Boston Marathon one year after the horrific bombings at the finish line scarred the great event like nothing before and hopefully nothing to come. 2014 BOSTON ANALYSIS – 23 April 2014 – Meb’s Miracle win dissected from inside the chase pack. DUMBING DOWN, SLOWING DOWN – 16 September 2013 – Reducing educational standards reflected in the reduction of competition in sports. PERILOUS PEAK OF PERFECTION – 24 October 2013 – It is this perilous peak of perfection that keeps driving athletes to set new standards, standards that seem to break the Americans down before they ever get to the race. site. BIG 3 DOWN TO 1 – March 17, 2015 – When Dathan Ritzenhein, Alan Webb, and Ryan Hall met at the 2000 Foot Locker Cross Country Championships in Orlando, Florida, America’s running fans were all but salivating at the prospect of what lie ahead, not just in Orlando, but in the careers to come. WHEN THE SHOE DOESN’T FIT ANYMORE – 26 February 2014 – USATF Indoor Nationals – due to the current organizational structure and sponsorship arrangements of USATF, once again we saw the fuse of unrest only needing a minor spark to ignite a major controversy. COMPETITOR GROUP PULLS THE PLUG ON ELITE RACING – 1 September 2013 – CGI’s entire North American elite athlete program was terminated, including the professional Grand Prix and the invited elite field for upcoming 36th Rock ‘n’ Roll Philadelphia Half Marathon September 15th, an important final tune-up for the fall major marathon season. THE RIVALRY CONTINUES – DEFAR OVER DIBABA IN ZURICH – 30 August 2013 – The most anticipated race of the evening was the 5000-meter showdown between former Ethiopian teen queens turned Olympic icons, Tirunesh Dibaba and Meseret Defar, the two most decorated women distance runners of their generation. MARY CAIN – CHIN UP, SHOULDERS BACK, CAN’T LOSE – 6 February 2013 – Cain smashed the 21-year old U.S. high school indoor 2-mile record by 17-seconds (9:38.68). In all, another fabulous performance for the 16-year-old high school junior who continues her assault on the all-time U.S. high school record book. DEAR NICK SYMMONDS – 4 October 2011 – “These asinine rules have been created by our governing bodies USATF and IAAF and are crippling our sport by preventing the flow of dollars into it.” John Thomas PASSING OF A HERO – 16 January 2013 – Two-time Olympic high jump medalist John Thomas of Brockton, Massachusetts passed away Tuesday, January 15, 2013 at the age of 71. BOSTON 2014 – SMALL WORLD, WONDERFUL WORLD – 25 April 2014 – John & Karen Odom, Forever Boston Strong Lukas Verzbicas VERZBICAS CONTINUES COMEBACK IN CARLSBAD – 7 April 2013 – former high school sensation Lukas Verzbicas, he of the sub-4:00 high school mile fame, was continuing his comeback from a horrific cycling accident last summer in Colorado Springs. “I AM SAMMY WANJIRU!” – 16 May 2011 – It was a long 22-hours back from Oslo to San Diego yesterday, only to hear of the tragic passing of the 2008 Olympic marathon champion Sammy Wanjiru of Kenya upon my landing. RELENTLESS SHALANE WINS IN NEW YORK CITY – 5 November 2017 – Today, it happened in New York City, as Shalane Flanagan bested three-time defending champion Mary Keitany of Kenya on a misty, gray autumn day that will forevermore be limned in gold. NEW OLYMPIC ENTRY STANDARDS Across the board, 100 meters to 50K walk and field events, the standards for Tokyo 2020 are significantly stricter than for Rio 2016. * An interesting mix of stories, for sure.  As always, there was plenty to rouse our passions, both positive and negative, as the sport continues to engage its many followers and practitioners.  As we enter this new decade, I want to thank all who read this blog.  And now it is onward to the (hopefully) Roaring Twenties.  Happy New Year and New Decade to all.+++1
CHRISTMAS MEMORY CLOSE TO HEART ‘Tis the season again when families gather around a hearth and a tree, forgiving past slights while holding close memories that linger like the woody aroma of a log-burning fire rising from a neighbor’s chimney. In the spirit of hope that attends this holiday season, I thought I’d share a message I received several years ago from my younger brother in Northern California recalling a talk he’d had then a letter he’d received from our father in St. Louis during a Christmas past. * “I was driving back from an early court appearance in Sacramento and the morning was thick with the tule fog.  And as I drove west towards other appearances in my neck of the woods, I’d see at times these wonderful sights of green fields and copses of trees emerging and fading in the fog. I’d called home to St. Louis, and Pop and I were just talking about one thing and the other.  And as I drove, I mentioned a few times what I was seeing as it unfolded around me. Just this Saturday, then, I received the note from Pop which follows.  I tried to follow Pop’s formatting (it was, of course, handwritten) but don’t know if you’ll receive it that way.  Emails often don’t seem to visually translate the same way as they’re written.  It doesn’t really matter, I guess, but I kind of view Pop’s letters like poetry and so the words as they appear on each line are like stanzas.  You’ll know the meaning nonetheless. * Dear Marek, Your phone call this morning touched me. I don’t know how, but maybe it was the green fields, but I went back in memory to a time long past when I was young and the world was, too. There I was again, it was about 11 PM.  A friend and I, both 22-years old, were walking home from a movie at the Pageant Theater this December night near Christmas. I was wearing a dark overcoat. It was snowing, large lazy flakes drifting down, and it was silent, no cars, no people, just we two. We walked over to a tavern. Even though the Depression was in full bloom then, many men sought peace in the company of others and a glass or [two] of beer.  I walked in. The lights were low as was the murmur of the conversation.  And there, with all those men, the smoke and the warmth and the aroma of whiskey in this room, I stood for a moment completely alone in my thoughts. It was almost Christmas and I was a very lost young man. But in this moment, for the first time in many years, I was at peace. It was just for a brief second, and then I came back to reality and had a glass of beer. I wonder what brought back to my mind that single moment in my life 70 years ago.  It was probably you, the fog, and the green fields. Love, Pop Isham Reavis in 1942 in sunnier times * Our father passed nearly a decade ago now, but like all families at Christmas time ours continues to pass around such family stories and reread old letters to keep those no longer with us closer to heart. Here’s wishing that all today’s lost souls, young and old alike, find a measure of comfort – even if just for a brief second – in this season of sharing and hope. Wishing everyone, too, a very merry and joyful Christmas.  +++1
Head To Toe Beginner Running Technique BY HOLLY MARTIN   |   FEBRUARY 01, 2018 Holly from The Run Experience gives us some tips on proper running technique. Head Position beginner running technique - head position Because so much of our time is spent at a computer or on our phone, it’s become natural to slouch a little in our everyday life. But running rounded or slumped over will take a toll on your whole body, so it’s important to make sure your head is in line when you run. To make sure, try this trick! Place your middle finger and thumb across your collarbone, and then extend your pointer finger upwards, making a tripod for your head. Your pointer finger should fall right underneath your shin. If it doesn’t, adjust so that it does, and try to maintain that position throughout your entire run. Beginner Running Technique: Shoulder Position & Arm Swing beginner running technique - shoulders and arms Shoulder tension is another contributor to that slouched position. Luckily, it’s an easy fix! When you’re running, simply remind yourself to relax and roll back your shoulders, periodically checking in to see if they have creeped up since you last checked. beginner running technique - arm swing As for the arm swing, beginning runners often let their arms swing across their body, which actually reduces the power of the swing! Instead, be sure your arms stay on the sides of your body, just swinging forwards and backwards, with your head up tall and your shoulders back. Beginner Running Technique: Hips beginner running technique - hips Our hip position is a big determinant of stride length and form. For a good, long stride, your hips need to be upright, with your hip bones facing forward. Imagine your hip bones were the headlights on a car – they should always be shining forward! Keeping your pelvis upright will ensure a long stride, and it gets those hamstrings and glutes firing, creating a more even distribution of weight on the legs. As you can see in the image above, Coach Holly’s hips are pointed down towards the ground, causing her whole body to slouch, and reducing her stride length. We also want to avoid sitting into our hips as we land on our legs. To do this, focus on keeping the same amount of distance between your knees throughout your run. If you are running along a line on the ground, keep your feet equidistant from it the whole time, or just imagine you’re doing this if there is no line. If your feet start to drift closer to your center as you run, chances are you’re collapsing into your hips as you land. Periodically check in and make sure there is adequate distance between your knees. Beginner Running Technique: Legs & Feet For leg technique, start by focusing on how your legs come off the ground. Ideally, our run stride should be right in the middle of a “high knee” and a “butt kick.” So aim to pull your feet up right underneath your pelvis, without the run looking too much like either of those exercises. Now, let’s talk about our feet! If your feet are scuffing the ground as you run, it’s because you’re not picking your feet up high enough off the ground. To combat this, focus on that pulling technique mentioned above. beginner running technique - legs 2 If you’re landing too heavy on your feet, sort of stomping on the ground as you land, try to pick your feet up a bit faster, creating a quickness and lightness in your run. Beginner Running Technique: The Workout Let’s put all of this together, shall we?! To do this, head out for a 30-minute run. After every 5 minutes of your run, spend your 6th minute focusing on one of these body parts. Notice what your body does naturally, and fix it accordingly. So after your first 5 minutes, spend the next minute thinking about your upper body. Repeat that again only spend the next 6th minute thinking about your hips. Continue this pattern all the way down to your feet. Finally, spend the last 6 minutes of your run letting all of this come together, noticing the parts of your body that need the most adjusting mid-run!+++1
Top 3 Apps For Perfecting Your Running Technique BY RUGGERO LODA   |   SEPTEMBER 20, 2017 Some experts believe that an athletes running performance comes from perfecting their own natural stride. Others believe in re-educating the technique and form of an athlete, increasing their performance based on studies and research. No matter what your belief is, understanding the strengths and weaknesses in your own stride is the first step to perfecting your own running technique. This is where coaching apps that record and playback slow motion footage, can not only help you analyze and identify key areas in your technique, but they can also provide a unique perspective that can help you discover and further develop your stride, walk, jog, run or sprint. Top 3 Coaching Apps 3. Slopro slopro SloPro is a good all round video recording and slow motion replay app. It is useful for gaining that unique perspective that we as runners often miss. All you need is a coach, friend or family member to record your stride on this app. Replay the recorded footage in slow motion and discover your running form and technique. Try altering your technique and start this process again, you will often find some interesting results. SloPro is free on both Apple and Android. 2. Hudl Technique Hudl Technique is an app focused on improving an athlete’s technique. It works in a similar way to SloPro, but after the footage is recorded you have the option to highlight your own strengths and weaknesses. By utilizing Hudl’s predefine drawing tools (circles, squares, ovals and arrows), you can draw feedback on top of the slow motion recording, highlighting key areas in your performance. This handy feature essentially gives you the opportunity to document and further understand your own running technique. Additionally, Hudl also comes with a side by side video comparison tool. This neat tool can help you compare your own stride with other professional runners. Visually discovering the new ways that you can improve or even discovering the secrets behind the speed and endurance of another athlete. Hudl Technique has both a free and paid version, and is supported on both Apple and Android. 1. Coaches Eye coaches-eye Coaches Eye has similar functionality to Hudl Technique. But further enhances, technique discovery and understanding with the addition of a multi-camera record and sync feature. Essentially it can capture footage streamed wirelessly from other devices in the area. Potentially covering a 360 degree view of your running technique. You could setup your GoPro to record your stride from the front, your iPhone to record from behind and your friend’s android device to record from your left and right hand side. Collecting and replaying this footage back in slow motion can help you locate your strengths and weaknesses. Providing an ample amount of information useful in; improving and perfecting your running technique. Coaches Eye can be purchased from the apple store for $4.99 and has a free 3-day trial on Android. Both Apple and Android have optional in-app purchases that enhance functionality. Start Widening your Perspective The way we learn how to run is from what we hear, feel and see. We perfect and tune our running technique based on these experiences. While we focus so much on our own personal perspective, we often overlook the value found in another’s, such as a coach, friend or family member. Coaching apps build on this 3rd person perspective, by providing a unique slow motion view that can help you analyze and develop your step, stride, pace and speed. They are just one of the many apps that both casual and professional runners should be using to reduce their learning curb and improve their performance.+++1
Running Technique Comparison: Which Are You More Like? BY JAMES DUNNE   |   OCTOBER 21, 2015 Last week I uploaded a new video to my YouTube channel, comparing the running techniques of two age group triathletes I work with here in the UK. When observing and assessing running form, I always like to see what happens when the athlete is running under fatigue. This shows a far more insightful view of how an athlete’s biomechanics begin to break down as the body is placed under duress. Much like on race day, or during a long run. This footage is no different – I filmed Andy and James spontaneously during the last quarter of our Monday morning Oregon Circuits session – a tough workout to say the least! The reason why I decided to film these two is the distinctly contrasting running styles that they display, at what was a reasonably similar pace. Which Does Your Running More Resemble? As you watch the video and consider the differences between the two athletes, ask your self the question: which am I more like? Many of the differences in form originate from how the hip/pelvic region, a natural cross-roads in the body. As I say in the video (a quote I often use) – “the foot can only go where the leg puts it”! Given the cyclical nature of running biomechanics, the way the foot initially contacts the ground is dictated by the way the leg swings through under the body immediately prior to the foot meeting the ground. With Andy, the athlete in the Yellow t-shirt, we can see that the swing leg is pulled up into a position where the knee and hip are both deeply flexed as the foot passes under the hip during swing phase. In comparison, at the same point in gait, James runs with a long swinging leg with less knee and hip flexion. This long lever acts in a similar way as a long pendulum, both swinging slower than a shorter pendulum would, and requiring more torque from the hip flexors to pull it forwards through swing phase. This places greater demands on the hip flexors who have a tendency to become dominant within the movement and sometimes get tight. With this tightness in the hip flexors, we often see the posture that James displays – anteriorly rotated at the pelvis and ‘sitting back’ as he runs – essentially sticking his butt out behind him and arching through the lower back to remain upright in the torso. Not until we can improve pelvic position, through lots of hip flexor stretching and glute activation and conscious cues around ‘holding the hips high’ and improving the flexion pattern of the swing leg, will we see a noticeable change in James’ posture and where his foot strikes the ground. As a simple goal, we’ll be looking to get his foot to a position where it is making contact with the ground under a flexing knee, rather that ahead or a more extended knee as it is at present. This is easiest achieved by bringing the hips and pelvis forwards, and this the center of mass in general. For more information about running form, take a look at our Online+++1
THE BEST HEADPHONES FOR RUNNING Dr. Nick Campitelli | December 26, 2019 | Running Gear Reviews | No Comments 50% OFF RUNNING SHOES AT AMAZON! Exercise is beneficial to the body and the mind. It ensures that your body is working as it should be. By doing exercise, you are making sure that the muscles, bones, tendons, and even your organs are working efficiently. Doing such activities allow your body to remove toxins out of your system making you healthier. Aside from that, your muscles including your heart can work efficiently making sure that your blood is unimpeded in its flow throughout your system and your organs are supplied with the proper amount of oxygen for them to be able to function effectively. One of the best ways for you to do exercise is through running. This is one exercise that you can do anywhere and anytime. Regardless of the weather, you can always go out and run even when it is hot, cold, raining, or snowing. You can even run inside your house or in a building if you want to stay indoors. Running nowadays is not limited to long roads and race tracks. You can also use a treadmill so that you can still run effectively even in a small confined space. There are times, however, when running can become boring and you are unmotivated. This can happen anytime most especially when you run alone. Another reason is that running can take a lot of time doing the same thing over and over again; moving your legs forward. When you run, you are unable to do anything else and this can cause your mind to wander and slowly you might lose interest. Visit this link for more tips on how to motivate yourself to run: https://www.bustle.com/articles/178467-8-ways-to-motivate-yourself-to-go-for-a-run-when-you-feel-like-doing-anything Thankfully, there is a way for you to keep your motivation and maintain your discipline in running. Listening to music helps you with your boredom as you run. Music can help motivate you to run longer without feeling like you need to give up. A 30-minute run will breeze through very fast with the aid of music. Music can definitely help in keeping your focus as you run. It takes your mind away from the pain you feel on your legs, the pounding of your heart and the shortness of your breath. Moreover, when you are listening to the music that you like or music that are upbeat, it can definitely help you run better. When you are running, one way for you to listen to music is through headphones. These are portable speakers that you can fit inside your ears. Nowadays, there are a lot of headphones that you can choose from; some are wired while some can connect to your music device via Bluetooth. Headphones are very important to a runner as they allow you to listen to music even when you are running long distances. Choosing the right headset can be tricky and depends on what you really need. Some require headphones that are that Bluetooth, while some require those that do not easily fall off. There are others with longer battery life and there are headsets with superb sound quality. To help you choose which headphones to buy, here are some headphone options for you. SENNHEISER CX SPORTS Sennheiser CX sports is one of the most comfortable headsets available in the market. It is designed to never fall to the ground with its support around your neck. This connects to your device via Bluetooth and has a long battery life which is up to 10 hours. This device needs only to be charged for 1 and a half hours.  The support around the neck is ergonomically designed and sheepskin nappa leather is used for the best comfort. This device, however, is not the best in terms of sound quality compared to its competitors. It may not fall to the ground because of its neck support but the earpiece tends to fall off your ears pretty easily. This can become annoying for some users. The Sennheiser CX Sports will cost you 88 dollars and is definitely a good buy for any runner. 66 AUDIO BTS PRO If what you are looking for in a headset is good sound quality, then this is the device for you. This does not only have good sound quality but has one of the best sounds in a headphone. The 66 Audio BTS was created to give the best music experience while you run and exercise. It also has a long battery life compared to its major competitors and is good for long runs. This device also has a noise-canceling microphone built into it so you can take calls and have crystal clear conversations even when you are out in the open. It also has music settings that you can control using your device so that you will have the best music experience with this headset. This also fits right into your ears and you won’t have to worry about it falling off. The best thing about this is that it is only 77.99 dollars. AFTERSHOKZ TREKZ AIR CONDUCTION Air Conduction is using the air in the middle of the ear to transmit sound waves to the cochlea. This is opposed to bone conduction where the sounds are transmitted directly to the inner ear through the bones of the skull or jaw.  The Aftershokz Trekz is one of the headphones that maximize the use of air conduction. It has noise isolation technology allowing you to have a better music experience with your headphones as you run or exercise. Click here to learn more about air and bone conduction. It is very lightweight and you won’t even notice it on your head.  It’s also sweat-proof and rain-proof so you wouldn’t have to worry about water damage destroying your headphone. However, this has quite a short battery life and needs to be charged more frequently. Choosing the right headset is important for runners. As this can be a great source of motivation, it should be something that will stress you out. Make sure that you find a headset that perfectly fits your head and that the quality is to your liking.+++1
GUT MICROBIOME VS PERFORMANCE BY THE RUNNER Dr. Nick Campitelli | January 10, 2020 | Training | 1 Comment 50% OFF RUNNING SHOES AT AMAZON! A runner’s nutritional requirements vary from a common man irrespective of the level of performance they are undergoing. While you are training, you need to be on a special diet and rest as much as possible to ease your performance to the desired level. Your gut health plays a vital role in achieving your goals as you are living with trillions of microbes and bacteria in the large intestine of your body that performs various functions such as digestion, absorption, and overall metabolism. Besides these, they help in balancing the blood glucose level and hormones signaling for hunger and satiety. They also fight against pathogens and boost your immune system. Many researchers have revealed that it’s not our genes that respond to different foods in our body but the gut flora that lies in the intestine controls different functions associated with metabolism. Hence a proper balance of gut flora in runners can enhance their performance. What is the role of Gut bacteria in improving your performance? Each one’s gut flora is unique, just like our fingerprint. By birth, we get our mother’s gut flora and as we grow it has been influenced by many factors like diet, exercise, lifestyle, stress, medication, and exposure to environmental factors like dirt and animals. Research conducted in 2007 has concluded the role of the gut microbiome in managing oxidative stress, energy expenditure, inflammatory responses, hydration and metabolism during vigorous exercises. Doing exercise in the long term can bring in diversity in the beneficial gut flora thereby having a positive effect on digestion, immunity, chronic disease risk and mood. Marathoners often complain of gastrointestinal problems. They experience loose bowels most of the time. Vigorous exercises and training can worsen this condition which is because while exercising, the working muscles demand more blood flow.  The tissues in and around the stomach receive less blood to carry out proper metabolism as you continuously feed yourself with fluids and food while digestion is occurring at a low level. The article, What’s Leaky Gut and How Do You Fix It?, explains that leaky gut is actually your small intestine absorbing things like toxins and bacteria. Let us understand more about the leaky gut syndrome and how it can affect your running. Leaky gut syndrome medically termed as intestinal hyperpermeability is a condition in which the mucosal barrier of the gut becomes less effective thereby allowing the unwanted molecules to leak from the GI tract to the bloodstream that can adversely affect the performance.  In this condition, the intestinal mucosal membrane becomes more permeable allowing the toxins and unwanted bacteria to invade into the bloodstream. Having a leaky gut can cause many other health problems like inflammation, joint pain, malabsorption, impaired thyroid function, other digestive issues, and endotoxemia. Leaky gut symptoms start with fatigue associated with chronic electrolyte imbalance and more visible symptoms like nausea, vomiting, cramps, and diarrhea. Over the years, studies have revealed that healthy gut flora has a positive impact on the immune system.  The inflammation and energy supply will benefit the runners in both the short and long run. With improved immunity, they are less susceptible to respiratory infections and GI problems. How to boost your gut flora to fix leaky gut? To improve the diversity in the gut microbiome and fix leaky gut the below-mentioned guidelines can be followed religiously. ● Include variety: Bringing diversity in the diet is the smartest way to create diversity in gut flora. Most of the runners follow fad diets, thus cut down on the variety to be offered to the gut flora. Enjoying a wide range of foods is a good start to bring in diversity to the microbiome. Eat plenty of seasonal foods and experiment on new foods and flavors that can bring diversity. ● Prefer unprocessed food: Processed foods and ready to eat meals are not favorable to our gut. Refined and white carbohydrates such as rice, bread, and pasta are of less nutritional value and offer much lesser benefits than whole grains to the microbiome. Artificial sweeteners, sugars, preservatives, and salt conquer beneficial microbes. Including real food for fuel will be of great advantage for runners in achieving overall health and performance. ● Prefer foods that can feed your gut: Whatever you eat should not only feed you but also your gut flora. Make sure to include prebiotics to feast your microbes. They are indigestible fiber found in fruits, vegetables, pulses, whole grains, nuts and seeds that act as fertilizers to enhance the growth of your friendly bacteria. ● Include fermented food: Fermented foods are a rich source of live bacteria and yeast that survive in the digestive system and increase the inhabitants and activities of the gut microbiome. Examples for probiotics are yogurt, pickles, fermented vegetables, unpasteurized cheese and red wine that offers health benefits. Apart from these, there are several microbe formulas and supplements that add diversity to the gut flora. Everybody can benefit from consuming a probiotic though one formula does not fit all as everybody has a different microbiome. Your body takes extra time to recover between exercises when suffering from leaky gut. In such instances, a less intense exercise such as swimming or yoga is recommended until your gut heals. A good amount of rest and proper nutrition and an anti-inflammatory diet can support your body. You may also use supplements that can reduce inflammation, calms down the intestinal mucous membrane, maintain regularity of bowel and decrease the permeability of the intestinal membrane. Consistent intake of nutritionally rich food and supplements can support gut health. To enhance proper digestion, low intensity stretching movements that aid in gut peristalsis can help. Also drinking plenty of water and high fiber foods can help remove waste from the GI tract. Consume the same volume and calories while training as well as at the time of the event. Practicing the same routine before the event is important in achieving the goal. Apart from this, figure out and schedule the meal timings and snacks before, during and after a high-intensity workout to ensure the performance at the desired level.+++1
WHAT KIND OF DOG HARNESS DO YOU NEED FOR RUNNING Dr. Nick Campitelli | January 21, 2020 | Training | No Comments 50% OFF RUNNING SHOES AT AMAZON! Description: Photo of Woman Standing by Her Dog Taking care of a dog is something that every pet owner should know how to do properly. This means that you constantly have to feed it, bathe it, play with it and love it unconditionally. This way, you will be happy and your dog will be as well. One great way to bond with your best buddy is doing exercise together. You can take a hike, walk in the park, jog or run in the track. For control and security purposes, you can either use a leash to keep it from wandering off, or you can use a harness. A lot of people prefer the latter option. A leash is not always the best solution. If you have a bigger canine, then a just a leash won’t keep it steady. A harness, on the other hand can be quite effective. Click on the link for more helpful information https://dogtime.com/dog-health/general/43739-collar-vs-harness-best-dog. If you want to know more, then continue to read this article. A harness might be just the thing you need for your pet. You can easily get one as well. Just walk into a pet shop that sells them, or order one online. There are many designs to choose from. It is best to get one that fits your pet perfectly so that it won’t feel discomfort. Here are some things you need to know about the product: Affordable This type of product is practical and affordable. You won’t have to worry about spending a lot of money. The prices depend on the type of harness. However, they are not expensive and basically everyone with a dog can afford them. You just need to make sure to buy the right size. Their designs and sizes vary because not all canines are the same size. Don’t worry because you will be able to find one for your own dog, as well. Make sure to get one that suits your dog the best. Otherwise, it won’t like it and it will constantly feel agitated. Canines can feel discomfort as well. If the harness is too tight, then your pet will show signs of discomfort. Make sure to go through several Pet Pest’s dog harness recommendations to find the right fit. Control Larger dogs are not so easy to control, especially if they are not trained properly. They can exhibit destructive behavior and embarrass you when you take them for a walk. A harness can help you control the dog much better. A collar or a short leash will not be a permanent solution for your problem, but a harness will. It is designed in such a way that it disperses the pressure from the neck to the back and the body. You will be able to keep your pet well-behaved and protected as well. A lot of studies suggest that dogs feel more comfortable wearing a harness rather than a collar. Training You can even use the product to train your dog. All you have to do is place it on your pet and start teaching it certain tricks. You can also use a leash, but with a harness, the outcome is much better. If your pet is already wearing the product, it will be much easier to attach the leash on the back, even if your dog is excited and can’t stay still. On the other hand, trying to put a leash on it through wiggling might be more difficult than you think. What if your pup doesn’t like it? Read more here. Protection Sometimes canines don’t like their leashes. Therefore, they will pull and yank constantly to get it off of them. This can easily cause some serious injuries. The worst scenario would be if your dog chokes on the leash. Wearing a harness will prevent all of that. This is because the pup will not feel stress on the neck. It will feel much more comfortable and relaxed. The leash can be attached on the back. This won’t cause you frustration. You can definitely count on the product not to make your pup uncomfortable. In fact, it has a lot of benefits. Durability If you purchase this product, then it will last for a long time. This, of course, depends on the type of harness you buy. Either way, you can count on it. Every time you take your pup out for a walk or you plan on teaching it several tricks, you can use it. If the harness is comfortable for your dog, then no problems will arise. Also, no matter the size of your pet, the product comes in different sizes. You will definitely find one that will suit your pet the best. Just make sure to look through several options first. Comfort As mentioned above, the product will definitely feel comfortable once you place it on your pup. It is made from high-quality materials. Also, no matter if your dog walks or runs, it will not cause discomfort. Just make sure that the product doesn’t feel too tight around their body. It will make your canine agitated, if not placed properly. You can always watch a tutorial online to make sure that you place it the right way. If by some misfortune your pup doesn’t like it, then you can always remove it and never use it again, but that’s rarely the case. A lot of pet owners are quite satisfied from it. Safety Many pet owners take their dogs with them on road trips. This can easily cause a problem, especially if you are planning to stay on the road for a long time. A dog will not sit still all the time. At some point, you won’t be able to sit still, let alone a dog. This is where the harness comes in handy. Certain models work perfectly with any seat belts in the car. This way, your pet can stay put and not cause any mischief. Also, this is better for the dog’s own safety, not just yours. The last thing you need is your pet distracting you from the road. Accidents happen all the time.+++1
I WENT MEATLESS FOR 20 DAYS AND THIS IS WHAT HAPPENED… | DAY 20 OF 20 Love YOU GUYS! I officially finished my meatless challenge! I was strictly lacto-ovo vegetarian for 20 days straight! Very proud of myself. Before I get into the details, I wanted to let you know that I released a new series on my YouTube channel called “12 Minutes to Toned”! These are intense 12 minute workouts that are timed, and also set to the beat of the music. They are fun, intense, and will make you die. I mean, it’s Jan 2020 – of course we’re gonna go hard!!! This week we are focusing on arms! And omg – your triceps, biceps, chest, shoulders, and traps will burn. Like SERIOUSLY. It’s 6 weeks of brand new 12 minute workouts that will challenge you and change you. C’mon. Let’s go HARD. Also – totally obsessed with the decor for my new set. I love love love interior design and had so much fun designing this one to feel fresh, semi boho-y, and semi havana-y. Do you LOVE!!???? Cuz I LOVEEEEE. Now…onto to the findings from my meatless experiment! I went lacto-ovo vegetarian for 20 days straight, meaning I could have anything I wanted except for actual meat. So eggs and dairy were ok. In general, I tried to be as grain free and dairy free as possible. This experiment was inspired by the controversial Netflix movie The Game Changers which tries to prove that plant based athletes are stronger than meat eating athletes. 20-Day Meatless Experiment Goal: To see if going meatless would increase my fitness performance and my energy levels! 20-Day Meatless Experiment Results: Day 0	Day 20 Weight	116.6 lbs	114.8 lbs Body Fat %	20.1%	19.6% Muscle Mass	35.2%	35.4% Abdominal Muscle Tone	Some definition.	Light to no definition. Cardio performance	Good	Good – no difference. Strength ability	Good	Good – no difference. Lifted the same weights. Energy Levels	Good	Good – no difference. Mental Clarity	Good	Good – no difference. Quality of Sleep	Deep	Deep – no difference. Skin	Normal	Had a 2 week rash on my face. Still on my face. Digestion	Normal	First week I was bloated and had slow and blocked digestion. The next couple weeks, it became normal. Analysis: Body composition: I went down in weight and body fat a bit, but nothing too significant. The one thing I noticed the most was that I started feeling softer all over. I began noticing a loss in muscle tone in my abdominal region, which is the most difficult place for me to see any definition. Fitness performance: Overall, I did not see a difference in my fitness performance or my energy levels, which was kind of a bummer! But at least it did not decrease. I purposefully did not want to time myself doing a sprint on Day 0 versus Day 20 because I wanted to be extra conscious and attentive of how my body FELT. I did not feel a difference in my cardio performance or in how much weight I could lift. Everything pretty much stayed the same. Mental clarity: Mental clarity was on point before and stayed on point after. No changes. Sleep: With sleep in general – I just don’t sleep enough. It has everything to do with the amount of work I need to get done daily. I averaged about 5-6 hrs of sleep a night on my 20 day experiment, which is about the same as what I was doing before. I’m tired by the time I get to bed, so I knock out immediately. Quality of sleep? Really good/the same before and during the meatless challenge. Skin: Ok, I have no idea if this has anything to do with me being meatless but I developed a terrible red rash on my left upper cheek that has been on my face now for over 2 weeks. Usually weird face stuff goes away after a couple days, but this one is still here. I am not exactly sure what this is caused by and I am surprised that it hasn’t gone away yet. The only thing I did differently during this time period was I tried using a derma-roller on my face the first week of the challenge. It’s a little rolly device that has mini spikes on it. You’re supposed to roll it on your face and it’s supposed to poke your skin so that your face will want to produce more collagen to repair the pokes. It is indeed a modern day mini torture device for beauty. Ha! Once I saw the red rash come in, I stopped using the derma-roller. And now it’s been 2 weeks and the rash is still on my face. Not sure what happened, but I hope it heals soon. Digestion: The first week or so of the challenge, I was having terrible digestive issues. I was bloated, constipated, and my stomach hurt. I believe it was due to the fake meat I was eating. A lot of times fake meat has wheat gluten in it, and in general, I eat pretty much gluten free. So – that was bad. Once I stopped ordering fake meat from restaurants like Veggie Grill and focused on getting my protein more from eggs, tofu, and the occasional Beyond Burger, things got better and my digestives returned to normal. Conclusion: My goal was to see if going meatless would increase my personal fitness performance and my energy levels. My results show that everything stayed pretty much the same. In The Game Changers, they really tried to paint the picture that vegan athletes are much stronger than non-vegan athletes. They did a wonderful job showing how very specific vegan athletes excelled in their sport. But, what they did not do was look at the bigger picture to give the audience a fair understanding of how the top athletes eat. They never laid out the best athletes in each sport to examine what their diets were. It would have been interesting to see what % of them were vegan vs non vegan and to correlate their diet to their ranking in their sport. So, what now? The 20 day meatless experiment allowed me to get super creative with my veggies, and I enjoyed cooking so much on this challenge! I will continue to cook and eat with a much more plant-based focus, but I am not going to continue eating vegetarian for now. It was difficult to be a low carb vegetarian whenever we ate out at restaurants and I would often leave feeling hungry. Almost anything vegan or vegetarian had bread or grains in it, and those things make me bloat intensely. Additionally, my blood test results confirmed that the best diet for my body would be low carbohydrate, and I have found that to be true. The takeaway? Eat more vegetables, fresh fruit, nuts and seeds in general. Eat whole foods and avoid processed foods, meaning things that have a ton of added sugar, are fried, or have ingredients that sound chemical. Realize that your body is unique. We have different genetics and biochemistry, so what works for me may not work for you, and vice versa. You need to do your own experiment. When watching documentaries and reading things on the internet, don’t believe everything you’re being told. Do your own research – ALWAYS. Read articles from both sides and come up with your own truth. Should you try going meatless? YES! You should. Sam went meatless with me for 20 days and he survived, so I know you can too! I’m a huge believer in committing to something new, different, or difficult, and learning something you didn’t know about yourself. You may discover something that could change the rest of your life. Or maybe not – but at least you’ll know what your limits are! Yesterday’s Day 20 Food Log: Tofu with cauliflower fried rice and a side salad of butter lettuce and cilantro dressing. A snack of plain greek yogurt. I added in some monk fruit sugar to sweeten it up! A fun middle of the day drink. Sweet strawberries for snacks! OMG it looks like the seaweed is on fire – haha. Dinner! Went to a restaurant called Gjelina in Venice! It was really good. I ordered a bunch of veggie appetizers and shared with our table. This was the kabocha squash! There was a lot of olive oil, pomegranate seeds, and some green leafy thing on top. Super good. Roasted beets. Japanese sweet potato. Brussels sprouts! Maitake mushroom! So crispy and good. I also had some roasted cauliflower but forgot to take a pic of that. I was really craving some ice cream, so Sam took me to Target to get some Oatly. OMG. It was perfect. The original plain flavor is my favorite! Alright you guys! That is all for today! I hope you enjoyed reading my 20 day meatless challenge posts. I will write to you again soon.+++1
he fall of Pedro: How Chelsea's most decorated player went from Barca favourite to struggling against Hull Nizaar Kinsella Nizaar Kinsella Chelsea Correspondent Last updated 8 hours ago Getty No other Blues player has reached the dizzying heights of the winger but his current bit-part role has seen him become a shadow of his former self The year is 2010. Pep Guardiola is sitting in the Santiago Bernabeu, fed up of people ignoring the talent of a vital cog in his Barca machine. “Pedro has become vital for us, absolutely fundamental. He is a role model, a great. He always exceeds expectations.” At Barcelona, Pedro was regarded as a 'killer' in the box. An unsung hero. Article continues below Editors' Picks The real Ronaldo has returned: Can Inter, Messi or anyone else stop him this season? Unstoppable? Liverpool survive adversity - and Adama - to keep rolling on Martinelli proves Arsenal transfer strategy should focus on scouting not super agents Man Utd flop Solskjaer will be the big loser in Old Trafford blame game He won 20 trophies there, 14 of those under Pep – indeed, a Champions League opener against Manchester United in 2011 permanently etched him into the history of the club. Against Hull City on Saturday, though, we saw a snapshot of where the man Guardiola once regarded as deadly as Lionel Messi in the penalty area is in his storied career. In early 2020, Chelsea's most decorated but increasingly bit-part Spaniard travelled to the mid-table Championship side in the FA Cup and struggled. In the first half, his movement was laboured despite the Blues' domination. A sign of a lack of first-team minutes no doubt. In the second half, he put the Frank Lampard's side under pressure by losing the ball close to his own goal, leading to a chance for Hull. The visitors grew in confidence though, and Chelsea were hanging on in a game that they almost certainly should have won more comfortably. Hull were the better side in the second half, but the two best chances in the latter stages fortuitously fell to Pedro. Alas, he squandered them. Sad to say, it wasn't a great watch for a player who was lining up alongside Messi and Andres Iniesta six years ago. Pep Guardiola on Pedro GFX Pedro, a man Chelsea fended off Man Utd to sign in 2015, is watching his time at Stamford Bridge come to an end. Spain's world and European champion began as a starter under Lampard after he produced a fine pre-season in Willian's absence, the Brazilian having been on a victorious Copa America trip with Brazil last summer. And under Antonio Conte in London, Pedro shone, the Italian's methods perfectly suited to his talents. Then there was Maurizio Sarri, who also found the Canary Islander to be a sound operator in his strictly-planned set-up. Coming back to this campaign, a few early-season setbacks and a couple of small injuries saw him lose his place to Chelsea's youth, with Willian also settling back in. Add to that Callum Hudson-Odoi and Mason Mount renewing their contracts and Lampard's deck starts to look stacked against the 32-year-old. But while Christian Pulisic poses yet another issue and Pedro appears open to leaving, Lampard denies the winger could be sold despite interest from Major League Soccer. Pedro, Chelsea training “He is part of my plans,” the manager said recently. “I started the season and he was in my team, and then, unfortunately, he got injured at Norwich before the game and I had to make a change. Then he was out for a while, and I do have competition in that area.” “He has had bits here and there, I know he wants more games, I get that. But he certainly has something that he can contribute here with his experience and his ability to break lines and run behind people and maybe get those goals in and around the box. “He's here, I know his contract is up at the end of the season but I am not even looking that far ahead. He's here, he's part of the squad and I need everybody because football can change very quickly. “There can be a period of games where you're on the bench, out of the squad, something changes and that's the moment that you have to come in and produce. “I have got no winners in this game, I want the club to be the winner. [If] people come in and do well, they stay in the team.” Pedro, presumably, will envy the situation of fellow forward Olivier Giroud, who has seen his talks with Inter progress well following the Serie A club tying up deals for Ashley Young and Victor Moses. With eight starts and 12 appearances overall, the Stamford Bridge shadows is likely to be where the former Barca star remains in the short term. Past the summer, however, one can hope that a transfer to a side that can afford him a spot in the starting XI will reignite the Red Fury.+++1
5 PLAYERS WHO COULD JOIN CHELSEA THIS SUMMER Simon Phillips  @siphillipssport    2 hours ago  3 min read 0 Jadon Sancho Christian PulisicCatherine Ivill/Getty Images Share Tweet Subscribe Frank Lampard cut a frustrated figure after his sides narrow 2-1 win against Hull City in the FA Cup yesterday, despite winning the match and progressing into the next round. The Chelsea boss has been voicing his concerns over the quality of attackers he currently has at his disposal, and has all but publicly asked for signings this window. Football on BT Sport   @btsportfootball "We allow teams to stay in the game until the 94th minute.""I feel like a broken record. It's frustrating.""We lost ground in the summer and we need to improve personnel wise."Fascinating listening as an incredibly honest Frank Lampard speaks to @DesKellyBTS... Embedded video 4,964 12:02 - 25 Jan 2020 Twitter Ads information and privacy 967 people are talking about this There is no excuse if the board do not back Lampard and give him the tools he needs to succeed, especially after going to the Court of Arbitration for Sport and having the transfer ban overturned. However, there is a general consensus that Lampard’s first choice targets are not available until the summer, so it does make sense to wait for them if they are who he really wants. But Lampard has spoken about bringing signings in now, and he needs it. He has picked up on short term options being the goal for this month, so they must back him with what he needs, with only 5 days remaining in the window. So with that in mind, who are these big targets that Lampard is looking to bring in this summer? We have looked at five possibilities… Jadon Sancho Callum Hudson Odoi Jadon Sancho 034 The Borussia Dortmund winger must surely be Lampard’s number one summer target. This deal looks like it could become reality, despite other clubs also being interested. He will cost over £100 million, but he would be worth the investment and be the closest that Chelsea have got to replacing Eden Hazard. Sancho has good friends at Chelsea already, and it’s certainly not a million miles away from happening. Dean Henderson It’s become public knowledge that there are concerns with the performances of Blues goalkeeper Kepa Arrizabalaga. In fact, you’d imagine that he probably has the rest of this season to convince Lampard that he is good enough. Otherwise, we could see a Chelsea move for Manchester United goalkeeper Dean Henderson. He is currently on loan at Sheffield United and gaining massive plaudits. There is no way he will want to compete with David de Gea for United’s number one next season, so if Chelsea had a number one spot to offer him, it could happen. Lewis Dunk The Brighton centre back could finally leave the club he has been absolutely dedicated to in the summer, with a reported interest from Chelsea. Dunk is a Chelsea fan and would fit the bill of the type of centre back they currently lack, in the shape of an experienced and dominant leader-type. Boubakary Soumare The Lille midfielder has already been mentioned by Lampard this month, so this is a pursuit that may occur this summer. Soumare is a more robust defensive minded midfielder who can come in and challenge for a couple of spots in midfield, and bolster that area with some more strength and quality.+++1
MONDAY MORNING, AND FRANK LAMPARD’S FIRST POINT OF CALL WILL BE MARINA’S OFFICE Simon Phillips  @siphillipssport    20th January 2020  2 min read 0 Frank Lampard in the Champions LeagueImage - Richard Heathcote Getty Share Tweet Subscribe Chelsea fans woke up with a major headache yesterday morning, as a result of their team going down to a late Newcastle winner in Saturday evening’s Premier League match up. Blues boss Frank Lampard, the coaching team, and the players will be suffering similar aches as they totally threw away a game that looked a dead cert three points. Chelsea were all over Newcastle, who’s game plan was to heavily defend, close their eyes, and hope for the best! As frustrating as it was, it was up to Chelsea to break down a defensive low block, but they had no answers and as always this season, looked entirely clueless as how to break it down. With The Blues dodgy defence looking especially vulnerable from crosses this season, there was always a good chance that the home side could nick a goal, and that they did, painfully, right at the end of the match. The look on Lampard’s face at the end of the match said it all, he is a man that needs help, in the shape of better attackers and new additions THIS MONTH, none of this wait until the summer rubbish. Simon Phillips @SiPhillipsSport · 18 Jan 2020 "We have problems up top, in terms of finishing chances. "We need to be clinical. The nature of it is we cant work anymore on it in training, we need to score more goals if we want to get to where we want to be. "Its clear I know we need to strengthen."- Frank Lampard Simon Phillips @SiPhillipsSport “We are looking to bring people in, in areas to win games. I think it’s clear by what I’m saying I know where we need to strengthen.” - Lampard 313 12:03 - 18 Jan 2020 Twitter Ads information and privacy 55 people are talking about this Simon Phillips @SiPhillipsSport · 18 Jan 2020 "We have problems up top, in terms of finishing chances. "We need to be clinical. The nature of it is we cant work anymore on it in training, we need to score more goals if we want to get to where we want to be. "Its clear I know we need to strengthen."- Frank Lampard Simon Phillips @SiPhillipsSport Is anything close? The reporter asks Lampard. Who replies "It doesn't matter until it's done."Suggests things are happening... 324 11:59 - 18 Jan 2020 Twitter Ads information and privacy 48 people are talking about this Nobody can tell me that there aren’t players available right now who can come in and improve this team, because there absolutely is. Make no mistake, Lampard will be knocking on the office door of Chelsea Director Marina Granovskaia this morning, with the pair needing conclude a number of new player signings within the next 11 days, otherwise run the massive risk of losing out on Champions League football, and all the financial rewards that it brings.+++1
IF WILLIAN WON’T TAKE A 1-YEAR DEAL, THEN SO BE IT Simon Phillips  @siphillipssport    17th January 2020  2 min read 0 Willian Share Tweet Subscribe John Terry, Chelsea’s best ever player in the clubs history and greatest ever captain, accepted 1-year contract extensions at the club once he reached 30, because that was the club’s policy. David Luiz, the journeyman player who left Chelsea and then returned, got granted a 2-year contract extension, breaking the clubs own policy. Then, he left to join one of Chelsea’s closest rivals Arsenal. Brilliant! Willian, currently has a 1-year contract extension offer on the table from Chelsea, but has yet to sign it because he wants a 2-year extension, just like his Brazilian compatriot (Source – The Standard). Frank Lampard apparently wants the club to sanction the demands and get him signed up, rather than risk losing him on a free this summer – he is already free to talk to other clubs and agree a pre-contract. But why should Willian get two years? I believe that if he doesn’t accept the 1-year offer, then either sell him this month if they can get a decent replacement, or allow him to see out his contract. Under no circumstances should they break their own policy for Willian. Yes, he does bring experience. Yes, he has been playing well under Lampard. Yes, he is useful to keep around. But not for another 2 years. He has been an inconsistent player throughout his Chelsea career and whilst I don’t think he is a bad player at all, we should now be looking to replace him at his age. He’s playing well this season, because things are going his way and he is a regular starter. Under Antonio Conte, he was not, therefore we saw the other side to Willian when he decided to put emoji’s over Conte’s face in the group trophy shot and blame it on his daughter. Yeah, sure mate! The Blues @TheBlues___ Willian when asked about puting the trophy emoji’s over Antonio Conte after FA Cup final win. #CFC View image on TwitterView image on Twitter 434 16:24 - 6 Aug 2018 Twitter Ads information and privacy 129 people are talking about this Is that an example of a player who is fully loyal to the club? Maybe he is when the stream is flowing in his direction, but it’s a different story if he is going upstream. I don’t dislike Willian, and he has done some amazing things at this club, but I just think many are blind to his attitude, and we can get a much better replacement. Incidentally, the featured image on this post is of Willian storming down the tunnel after being substituted. See what I mean?+++1
Arteta-ball: An Alternative Match-Report JANUARY 2, 2020 by ANUSHREE NANDE 0 In the March of 2019, I wrote my first and only Alternative Match Report when Arsenal beat Manchester United 2-0 at the Emirates. I talked about the shiny luck of the new manager for Ole Gunnar Solkskjaer who had led his team on an inspired winning streak until the loss to Arsenal. The same manager, far from shiny or lucky now, was in the dugout for Manchester United last night, while it was Arsenal’s turn for a new face in theirs. However, there had been no such respite for Mikel Arteta, hired for a job many believed (maybe still believe) was too large, too overwhelming to comprehend. Arteta's first win showcases the potential of squad that is capable of much more Following a draw in his opening match in charge at Bournemouth away and a heartbreaking loss to Chelsea at home, anything less than 3 points, at a time when Arsenal was closer to the drop zone than the top of the table, wasn’t an option. The signs were there that the Spaniard was already imposing a much-welcome structure and order to proceedings. Team-work, desire, intensity, discipline on and off the ball. A result was all that was missing, and voila. I’m loath to chalk it up to the “new manager effect” because that would be doing Mikel Arteta a disservice, with his visible, immediate impact. It takes, on average, 66 days for a new behaviour to become automatic. Probably more when dealing with something as complex as building a cohesive, consistent team; particularly when the style of play is physically and mentally rigorous. As David Luiz pointed out in his very candid post-match interview, the team isn’t yet physically ready to sustain the intensity demanded by their manager. But, and this is important, he also said, “but when physically you’re not there, you have to put your heart.” Arteta is already imposing his philosophy on this squad, very much like Emery tried to when he first came, and later. The 2-0 win in March 2019 came through a gutsy team performance where Unai finally started all of his best offensive players together. It saw the brief but glorious return of the press and counter-press we were promised early on. As a manager, he also demanded concentration, valued work-rate and did, initially, seem to be organising us into a better unit. That match felt like a minor turning point in the then narrative, not because of the 90 minutes but what it seemed to symbolise. For the first time since the 2007-08 season, Arsenal had 10 points at home against their big-six rivals and had 12 points more after 30 league matches than the season before. All of this to say that determination, and discipline mean little on their own. Unai Emery, for all that he tried, just wasn’t the right fit for Arsenal Football Club. This isn’t only about different methods of coaching or preferred styles of play. This isn’t about me comparing the two, but about me trying to explain the elusive, intangible something that separates the right fit from everyone else. When we announced Mikel Arteta’s appointment, I tweeted, “This feels right in a way that I cannot explain,” and this was beyond his obvious qualifications and temperament. Anu Nande @AnuNande This feels right in a way I can't quite put into words. https://twitter.com/Arsenal/status/1208025181169627136 … Arsenal   @Arsenal Welcome back, Mikel! 👋 Head coach of The Arsenal 👔 Embedded video 19 6:20 AM - Dec 20, 2019 Twitter Ads info and privacy See Anu Nande's other Tweets In March 2019, I talked about how football runs on narrative cycles as much as anything else in sport, culture, or life. What I didn’t talk about was the tangible and intangible of it all. In sport, we have clear winners and losers, can crunch the numbers and analyse the statistics. Yet, we all know that stats can be taken out of context and rarely offer the full perspective, the narrative. They certainly never cover the elusive chemistry key to every successful story. Confidence. Trust. Faith. Purpose. The players are already buying into their manager’s philosophy, already playing for him and for each other. It’s the kind of instant respect and loyalty you can’t buy or be taught to demand. Mikel Arteta seems to instinctively get what his squad needs and how to get the best out of them. Last night, his team left everything on that pitch, and then some. They hustled, they harried, but they also seemed to just really enjoy their football. It’s an infectious, positive feeling that was amplified by a stadium never known for its banging atmosphere, in a sport that is nothing without feelings, without emotional attachment; itself as intangible as the rest. One match, or even three, form too minuscule a sample size for any sweeping declarations and even the most optimistic of Arsenal fans knows that this is a long-term project. But if Arteta’s pressers and the almost magical transformation on the field are any indications, he knows that small steps are as important as leaps of faith. Not every match is going to be like last night’s, but there is a renewed energy in the fanbase, a restored sense of pride around Arsenal Football Club and a belief in the vision that the new manager is painting. To quote our resident Greek philosopher, the fun is back.+++1
Nagendra Prasad Sarbadhikari – The first visionary of Indian football NOVEMBER 25, 2019 by SOMNATH SENGUPTA 0 Two of Eastern India’s best known educational institutions, Hare School and Hindu College (present Presidency College) was established between 1816 and 1818. Both possess glittering lists of alumni and over two centuries many of their students have played a vital role in pre, post independence India. Curiously, Indian football also has a great debt to them. How Indian football started its long journey is often lost in the sands of time but it involved a young boy, an enthusiastic professor and a chance encounter on a winter morning in Calcutta. Nagendra Prasad Sarbadhikari was born in 1869 to Dr. Surya Kumar Sarbadhikari and Hemlata Devi. His early life was unremarkable but it would change on a September morning in 1877. Accompanied by her son, his mother had the habit of taking a dip in the holy river Ganga to start off the day. On that day, en route to the river, their horse drawn carriage passed through a road just north of Calcutta FC training ground. Nagendra Prasad was intrigued when he saw a number of British soldiers practicing with a circular ball. He got down from the carriage, moved closer to the ground to observe. After a while, the ball rolled towards him, prompting Nagendra Prasad to pick it up and marvel at how light the thing was. One of the soldiers came up to him and laughingly asked, “Kick it to me, boy”. He obliged. According to legend, this was the first time an Indian had kicked a football. Whether it was the first kick or not is a matter of conjecture, but this seemingly insignificant incident and that young boy would play a major role in snowballing the popularity of football in India – making the country arguably the most vibrant footballing scene outside Britain in the Victorian age. Sarbadhikari’s story has passed into folklore but football in India stretched further back to early 19th century. In History of Indian Football Nirmal Nath states that the first recorded football match in India happened in Bombay (present Mumbai) in 1802 – a 30 minute game between teams named as “Military” and “Island”. Having taken place more than half a century before formal codification of football rules, it is very likely that this match was a hybrid form of football and rugby. This was followed by instances of football matches from Calcutta – Etonians against Rest of Calcutta (1838), Calcutta Club of Civilians against Gentlemen of Barrackpore (13th April, 1854), Etonians against Rest of Calcutta (1868). As the 1870s dawned, football matches became more frequent in Calcutta, mostly involving British soldiers, tradesmen or sailors. These matches eventually led to the formation of Trades Club (later renamed to Dalhousie Club) by British businessmen in 1878. Armenian traders had been a major player in the field of commerce in Bengal since the 17th century and they also formed a football club. However, till late 1870s football was mostly limited to participation from non-Indians. This completely changed when Nagendra Prasad Sarbadhikari arrived on the stage. Soon after his first brush with the game, an ebullient Sarbadhikari narrated the incident to his classmates in Hare School. His enthusiasm was infectious and his friends decided to start a group subscription in order to purchase a football. In the partly fictionalized Ekadoshe Surjodoy (Eleven Rising Suns), Rupak Saha mentions that they pooled in an amount of Three Rupees and Seventy Five paise. A little group of boys then made their way to Messrs. Manton & Co. in Calcutta’s Bowbazar area, a famous dealer of sporting goods. They purchased a ball but given their inexperience and lack of knowledge, what they bought was a rugby ball! Sarbadhikari and his motley group had no idea about the rules of the game but undeterred, they started a kickabout in the grounds of Hare School. Given its novelty, a sizable crowd had gathered to watch a game which was played with little rhyme or rhythm. Among the spectators was Professor GA Stack, who peered from the balcony of neighbouring Presidency College. Amused, he came down and questioned Sarbadhikari which sport was they trying to play – football or rugby? Sensing confusion Stack graciously agreed to not only gift them an actual football but also offered to teach rules of the game. Professor JH Gilligand joined ranks with Stack to teach the basics of football. Although young, Sarbadhikari showed remarkable aptitude in learning the game. He also had natural leadership and organizational abilities which meant he began to play an active role in popularizing football among students. He established Boy’s Club which was the first football club in India with only Indian members. The game soon spread as students of Presidency College also began to participate in matches with Hare School boys. He was younger to the college boys but still played the role of a leader. Sarbadhikari’s classmate Nagendra Mallick was a scion of a royal family from Chorbagan area of Calcutta. Their joint efforts saw football permeating into royal families with the birth of Friends Club inside premises of the royal household of Raja Rajendra Mallick (whose Marble Palace remains a tourist attraction). Sarbadhikari eventually joined Presidency College where he continued to spread the game in different age groups. He also kept on creating new clubs, each one bigger and more ambitious than the previous. His activity was not just limited to Calcutta as he combined with his friend and protege Bama Charan Kundu to start Howrah Sporting, which introduced football to natives in the district of Howrah. Under Sarbadhikari’s leadership spawned Presidency Club and then in 1884, Wellington Club which crossed the threshold of school and college students, drawing players from different sections of the society. Within a few years since that “first” kick, football had already become significantly popular in Bengal. To decipher the reason behind this popularity it will be relevant to step back and understand how physical activity and sports was viewed in society at that time. In most middle and especially upper class Bengali families physical sports were looked at with suspicion. Most of the traditional games like chess or flying kites involved little or no physical strain and it was preferred that a game could be played lying down. Expert gymnast and circus artist Krishnagopal Basak (1866-1935) wrote in his autobiography, “Performing gymnastics wasn’t considered to be a sign of a good boy. Bodybuilding, wrestling, gymnastics, performing on parallel or horizontal bars were all perceived to be activities of hooligans”. Unsurprisingly, this had earned Bengalis a reputation of physical frailty and laziness. By mid-1850s two streams of sports emerged which aimed to change this perception about Bengali society. The first was wrestling. Ambika Charan Guha, a mostly self-taught wrestler began the culture of “akhara” or gymnasiums in 1857 which gained some level of popularity. The second stream was circus which combined wrestling, gymnastics and animal taming. In early 1880s Nabagopal Mitra made the first attempt in Bengal at an indigenous circus but it was Priyanath Bose’s “Great Bengal Circus” that became the first successful enterprise, touring all over India and multiple foreign locations. Both wrestling and circus might have started a change in outlook but physical sports had still not garnered wide popularity. They had limited scope and for a subjugated people, there was no chance to test one’s physical prowess against the rulers in these sports. Football solved both these problems. Swami Vivekananda and his teachings also had an influence on the propagation of football. A great spiritual leader of modern India, Vivekananda preached a form of spiritualism which combined knowledge of scriptures along with nationalism, physical and mental strength. His emphasis on the development of a strong physique meant many of his followers took up physical sports like football as a means of self-improvement. There was also an actual connection between Swami Vivekananda and football. Legend has it that he witnessed a number of football matches in 1880s and saw Nagendra Prasad Sarbadhikari in action. In a felicitation ceremony in Sovabazar Royal Palace Swami Vivekananda reportedly pointed at him and said, “We need more strong men like him”. The impression made by the beautiful game is best captured by an oft quoted statement of his. In his book Lectures from Colombo to Almora under a chapter titled as Vedanta in its application to Indian Life, he says, “Be strong, my young friends; that is my advice to you. You will be nearer to Heaven through football than through the study of the Gita”. It is likely that Swami Vivekananda didn’t state this as a football fan but rather as a social reformer who was impressed with the physical strength and teamwork the game fostered. The iconic Salt Lake Stadium in Kolkata, which is India’s largest stadium is officially named after Swami Vivekananda. The great spiritualist might have viewed football as a device to fulfill his vision of social reform but Nagendra Prasad Sarbadhikari performed his own version of a mini social revolution by setting up Sovabazar Club in 1887. Higher caste members raised a furore when Moni Das, son of a potter and a young man of lower caste tried to join Wellington Club. Enraged by this discrimination Sarbadhikari decided to dissolve the club. In Goalless, a scholarly work based on the socio-political impact of football in India, sports historians Boria Mazumdar and Kaushik Bandopadhyay write, “Nagendra Prasad was the first Indian to voice a critique against caste discrimination in the sporting realm. Although he belonged to an orthodox Hindu family, he chose to ignore all cast prejudices while establishing a series of sporting clubs”. Through marriage Sarbadhikari had gotten linked with the Sovabazar royal family, a powerful entity in socio-political stage of Bengal. Sovabazar Club was founded in the premises of famous Sovabazar royal palace in Northern Calcutta. It contained over 500 members who had left Wellington Club along with players from Boys Club and Friends Club. Moni Das was one of the first members to be inducted. Sarbadhikari was joined by Jishnendra Krishna Deb Bahadur, a member of the Sovabazar royal family as joint secretary and Bhupendra Narayan Bhup Bahadur – the Maharaja of Coochbehar, as club president. Remarkably, the club’s principle was to recruit players irrespective of caste, religion or creed – a significant step in a society still divided on those lines. Royal patronage was vital in Indian sports, arts or music as it brought in greater interest from the public and funds. The royal house of Coochbehar played a major role in the early development of Indian football. The Maharajas of Coochbehar were involved first with Sovabazar Club and then with Mohun Bagan. Irked by the tendency of British organizers of barring Indian teams from major tournaments, Coochbehar royal family started the Coochbehar Cup. Other royal houses that provided patronage to Indian football in its nascent stage were royal houses of Sovabazar, Bhukailas, Tajhat, Patiala, Mahisadal, Burdwan and Santosh. Sovabazar was, without any doubt, the first big native club in Indian football. The royal family was held in high esteem by the British, ensuring the club got ample opportunities to play against British teams. Led by Sarbadhikari, it was the first club to capture the public imagination, which led to the formation of clubs in different parts of Calcutta. Two successful clubs of that era were also founded by people linked with Sarbadhikari – Manmatha Nath Ganguly’s National Association and Dukhiram Mazumdar’s Aryan Club. National was the first football club in India to directly link football with nationalism. Ganguly, an idealistic teacher, conceived the idea of beating the British by playing like British – meaning players from National wore boots. This was in sharp contrast to clubs like Sovabazar where members preferred to play barefoot – a way of Indianizing the foreign game. Indian Football Art by Onkar Shirsekar Published in 1955, Kolkatar Football (“Football in Kolkata”) by Rakhal Bhattacharya, is one of the first books chronicling the history of Indian football. Bhattacharya wrote, “Sovabazar made immense contribution to spread football among Bengalis. A competitive edge soon crept into what was initially a hobby of a royal family. From North Calcutta, many middle class players joined the club. Eventually the influence of middle class eclipsed the royal influence in Sovabazar Club”. He further added, “Bengalis of that era were most interested to get a field where they could closely compete with the British. It was very likely that they would end up on the losing side but still they would put up a fight and who knows someday they could even win!” Bhattacharya also said, “Nagendra Prasad wasn’t just a player but he also influenced a number of young men to join Sovabazar”. He also mentioned Nagendra Prasad’s playing prowess and called him one of Sovabazar Club’s greatest players. There aren’t any detailed descriptions of his playing style or stats about how many goals he scored but Nagendra Prasad Sarbadhikari was most likely a bustling center forward who relied more on physical strength than skills. There are multiple references to his physical strength. In 1911 Bangalir Oitihashik Football Juddho (1911 – Bengal’s Historic Football Battle) Kaushik Bandopadhyay quotes Manmatha Nath Basu, one of Sarbadhikari’s admirers, “On the field, anyone who was elbowed by Nagendra Prasad remembered it very well. He also proved to Indians and non-Indians that barefooted Bengalis could kick harder than booted players”. Nagendra Prasad’s biographer PL Dutt wrote, “That (physical regeneration of Indians) was the nationalism which Nagendra Prasad preached and practiced in all his life”. Sarbadhikari was a great sportsman and also took part in athletics, rifle shooting and even rugby. The best example of Nagendra Prasad’s physical strength lies in the following anecdote from Goalless – “A young family member ridiculed Nagendra Prasad’s powerful stature and stamina saying that a man only needed so much strength that he would be able to drink a glass of water by himself! Surrounded by armed retainers the babus present broke into laughter at the comment. Nagendra Prasad, not amused in the least, stunned everyone present by lifting the fellow off the ground and asking, “Now shall I fling you down, what do you imagine you will require to escape that fate? It was only after the man apologized that Nagendra Prasad set him down”. Sarbadhikari’s reputation is very much in sync with how football was viewed at that time – a stage where an average Indian could go up against their imperial oppressors and physically match them blow by blow – something that would earn punishment outside the field of play. The Bengali term “gorer mathe gora thangano” – “beating up a Brit on fort ground” (many football matches took place on the fields alongside Fort William, the army headquarters for British empire in Eastern India) has been often used in Bengali literature to describe bravado. By the late 1880s and early 1890s Mohammedan Sporting and Mohun Bagan were established. British teams still held positions of power, they were now joined with these young, enthusiastic native clubs with the support of the general public. With so many teams on the scene, the need for an open tournament was felt, leading to start of “Trades Challenge Cup” in 1887 – India’s first football tournament. British traders donated 500 rupees for the trophy and it was an “open” tournament, meaning both Indian and British clubs could participate. As the biggest club of their day, Sovabazar Club was first Indian club to play in Trades Cup. Playing with eleven barefooted players against booted opponents, they struggled in the first edition of the tournament. In 1892 Sovabazar Club finally did the unthinkable and defeated a British team. In the opening match of Trades Cup they beat East Surrey, a British regiment team 2-1. This result got some degree of fame and was covered by both Indian and British press. Sarbadhikari was felicitated by royal houses in Bengal as well as Patiala in Punjab. With Sovabazar Sarbadhikari broke another glass ceiling, setting up a club house (commonly known as “club tent”) in Calcutta’s Maidan area, which used to be an exclusive right of British teams. Fresh from his club’s triumph against East Surrey, Sarbadhikari then focused on the next big project. Two tournaments, limited to British participation, had started outside Bengal – Durand Cup in winter capital of British India, Shimla (1888) and Rovers Cup in Bombay (1891). Sarbadhikari envisioned a tournament modelled after English FA Cup that would attract best teams from different corners of India. In 1892 he convened an informal meeting with officials from two foremost British civilian teams – Calcutta FC and Dalhousie FC to chalk out the blueprint. The first football association in India, Indian Football Association (IFA), was formed in 1893. Unfortunately, the division between ruled and rulers became evident with a governing body devoid of any Indian member – ironic for an organization whose name began with “Indian”. IFA’s major task was to manage the IFA Shield – the first “open” all India tournament. Financial contributions came from royal houses of Patiala and Coochbehar as well as AA Apcar (Armenian Club) and J Sutherland (Dalhousie Club). The Shield trophy was designed by Walter Locke & Company (Calcutta) and constructed by Elkington & Company (London). The day it arrived in Kolkata, a crowd of hundreds thronged just to catch a glimpse of it. Staying true to Sarbadhikari’s vision the inaugural IFA Shield tournament was conducted in two zones. Allahabad hosted Western zone where four army teams participated. The Eastern zone took place in Calcutta with nine teams – four British civilian teams, four British regimental teams and Sovabazar Club as sole Indian club. Sovabazar were out of their depth, bowing out in first round after a 3-0 reverse against 5th Royal Artillery. Between 1890 and 1900 football became more popular among the masses outside Bengal. Football was introduced to school students by Cecil Earle Tyndale-Biscoe, a missionary in Church Missionary High School in Srinagar, Kashmir and by medical missionary Theodore Leighton Pennell, in Bannu, North West Frontier of undivided India. In Southern Indian city of Thrissur, RB Ferguson Football Club was founded in 1899. Spurious Cup tournaments were not enough to cater to the growing interest of an ever expanding football fan base and hence, league football was conceived. Calcutta Football League was started in 1898, making it the oldest football league in Asia. Four years later Bombay Football Association was born to organize the Harwood League with seven teams. In 1900, a final glass ceiling was shattered when an Indian was inducted into IFA’s governing body. Native clubs had been insisting for their own representative and IFA finally buckled under their persistence. Sarbadhikari was offered the post but he declined, graciously offering it to Kalicharan Mitra, a close associate since his school days. In Goalless this selfless act is attributed to Sarbadhikari’s “indifference to the lure of either power of position”. 1900 witnessed another landmark achievement when National Association won Trades Cup – the first reputed trophy won by an Indian club. National and 1893 Coobhbehar Cup-winning Fort William Arsenal (consisting of Indian employees of the British army) were continuing on the path broken by Sovabazar Club in 1892. However, by this time the influence of Sovabazar Club had waned with both National and Mohun Bagan becoming the trailblazers in Indian football. After leading the Indian football movement for the best part of twenty five years Nagendra Prasad Sarbadhikari left the scene in 1902, becoming an attorney in Calcutta High Court. The details about why he left the game are sketchy. Sovabazar Club and National Association, two clubs which had led the emergence of Indian football, also didn’t survive long as the mantle was taken over by Mohun Bagan, Mohammedan Sporting and East Bengal. Mohun Bagan’s victory in 1911 IFA Shield was a singular turning point in Indian football and sporting history. Playing with ten barefeet players Mohun Bagan strung a series of well publicized victories over British teams to become the first Indian team to win a major domestic trophy. It was not just a sporting victory but a victory which had a larger socio-political impact in terms of India’s freedom struggle. Sarbadhikari and Manmatha Nath Ganguly had sown the seeds to connect nationalism with football and 1911 solidified that connection. Nagendra Prasad Sarbadhikari passed away on 17th January, 1940. By the time of his death, native clubs were dominating and Indian football had truly become “Indian”. Mohammedan Sporting had won Calcutta League five consecutive times in the 1930s. In 1938, Bangalore Muslims became the first Indian club to win Rovers Cup while Mohammedan SC did the same with Durand Cup in 1940. In 1977, Indian football’s hundred year anniversary was celebrated in honour of Nagendra Prasad Sarbadhikari. His role is acknowledged by most works on Indian football including Barefoot to Boots by India’s prime football historian Novy Kapadia. Sarbadhikari may not be celebrated as much as he deserves to but his almost single handed efforts in popularizing football among Indians make him a perfect fit for the moniker of “Father of Indian Football”.+++1
We need to talk about the Granit Xhaka incident OCTOBER 29, 2019 by SARTHAK DEV 2 There is a video on the internet, titled The horribly slow murderer with the extremely inefficient weapon, that shows a hooded assailant stalking, chasing, and beating an innocent man. He follows the man like a shadow, waiting for any opportunity to pounce with his weapon of choice – a steel spoon. After days and weeks of hitting the spoon awkwardly all over his body, he finally kills the victim. The video is clearly made in jest, but in the seconds between closing the browser tab or switching to the next video, you wonder for a second about the distance between its premise and plausible reality should the events translate. A spoon – as the video title suggests – seems innocuous, but if you are relentlessly attacked with it, at some point your muscles are bound to swell and your bones will ache. On Sunday night, Granit Xhaka’s mind gave way. Jeered and booed by the Arsenal home crowd once his number came up on the substitution board, the club captain threw his armband away to Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, hurled the proverbial pleasantries at the supporters, and walked away in a huff, taking off his shirt in disgust on his way to the dressing room. The video gets worse every time you watch it, and the camera angle – carefully focussed on Xhaka – does very little for objectivity. The commentary slides in like a knife to his back – “It’s not good from Xhaka.” Granit Xhaka Twitter immediately burst into flames; Troopz, a regular at the megaphone of outrage, sensationalisation, and poor fan behaviour known as Arsenal FanTv, screamed “Fuck Xhaka. I swear, if Emery gives him the armband again..”. On being asked by the host if the fans are at all culpable for drawing that reaction out of Xhaka, he cited the money an average fan pays for a ticket as the license to show their frustration towards the captain of one of England’s biggest and most illustrious football clubs. Troopz – with his tone and decibel – does a terrible job of airing an opinion, but reading between the lines, his views aren’t baseless. Fans are entitled to their opinion and it’s easy to understand how a majority of them see their reaction on Sunday as completely harmless. Arsenal are going through tough times and Granit Xhaka isn’t a shining beacon of technical ability or leadership. He is admittedly more prone to errors than most stadium going fans, holding on to the nostalgia of Adams, Vieira, and Henry, associate with their leader, and hence, doesn’t get the leverage that Aubameyang or Ozil would. In their eyes, Xhaka has earned every ounce of criticism he has copped and no professional footballer should ever react to the crowd the way he did. On both counts, they are only partly right. Fans criticising a player has never been a problem. Granit Xhaka plays football at the highest level, and it is safe to assume he has experienced his share of public failures to get to where he is today. Almost every athlete at this level knows how to deal with mass anger – you wouldn’t last a week at a club like Arsenal if you didn’t. The issue arises when the criticism crosses over to something more cynical, repetitive, and vengeful. Elite sport, in today’s breathless, high-stakes form, gets lonely and claustrophobic when the people who you expect to have your back, to be your 12th man, turn into your harassers. Professional athletes crave to be treated as normal humans with the same kind of qualities and vulnerabilities as anybody else. Granit Xhaka, regardless of his ability with a football, has done nothing to be told every week that he is useless. For Troopz and a majority of public fandom, heroes and stars are disposable. The armband that Xhaka wears today will be worn by another expensive signing tomorrow and all their anger, elation, and frustrations will then be easily redirected. If Emirates can boo Arsene Wenger, if the Wankhede Stadium can boo Sachin Tendulkar, what chance does a Swiss import like Xhaka really have? The entire point of any public performance is to draw emotion out of the audience. The intensity that English football is famous for stretches far beyond the pitch. The stadium-going fans and overseas supporters are as crucial to making the Premier League a spectacle to follow as the twenty and a few men who wear the crest every season. Fans are bound to have opinions, and a stadium is one of the few places where their collective voice can physically reach players. Just like it would be cruel to expect them to reign their emotions in, the fans themselves need a regular reminder that the players aren’t simulations created by EA Sports’ Frostbite Engine. They are men of flesh and blood, and if the guy standing next to you at the stadium will not tolerate constant haranguing, chances are, Arsenal’s club captain won’t either. The line between sensitive frustration and classless harassment is a thin one, but it’s thick enough to be able to choose for yourself which side you want to walk on.+++1
Art and Football in Bilbao – Goal by Aduriz SEPTEMBER 9, 2019 by PIYUSH BISHT 1 In Bilbao, artists usually age at the Guggenheim–their works adorning its walls, drawing sighs from beholders and enduring the inquisitive, probing eyes of menfolk who study art as a discipline. Picasso ripens there. So do Braque and Rodchenko, all framed and preserved. Roughly three kilometres away from the Guggenheim (if you ask the cab driver for the shortest route) is a site where a different sort of artist ages as we speak–the kind that kicks elastomer balls on perfectly laid down patterns of grass. Aduriz It was early August when Aritz Aduriz, speaking to a room packed with the media in Bilbao, announced that the 2019-20 season of the Spanish top division would be his last. You may not believe it, but in Bilbao they say that the Nervion wailed and the stands of San Mames moaned at the mention of this imminent farewell. After all, one of their favourite sons seemed to have run his course. Yet, there was something to cheer about as Aduriz reassured everyone that his announcement in no way meant that he would lower his level. It sounded like a mere consolation back then. They had already pictured him coming off the bench in the dying minutes of a game to deafening cheers; simply to give them, the fans, a momentary glimpse of their hero until the referee blew for full-time.  He was 38, at the end of the day. “Fit for the museum” in football terminology. Who knew the man would keep his word? As a long-time club legend, Aritz Aduriz has had his fair share of moments with Los Leones. A hat-trick against Barcelona in the 2015 Spanish Supercup remains a part of that lot. Was he still capable of creating a spectacle? Many would argue that a professional modern-day footballer of his age playing in one of Europe’s ‘Big Five’ leagues would rather have a stroll on the field for the little playing time he has been summoned to fulfil. Infrequent sprints here, a mild jog there, punctuated with casual passes; not partaking in an act that would eventually become a cause of worry for an ageing body. But in Bilbao, they raise them different. As the opening game of the 2019-20 La Liga season was drawing to a close in Bilbao, on Friday,  August 16, supporters of the Basque club witnessed an event they had been picturing in their minds for a week. With two minutes to go against the defending Liga Champions, FC Barcelona, Aritz Aduriz came off the bench. 25-year-old Iñaki Williams, who for most of the game had tried to score his 50th goal for Athletic, headed off the field without haste, hugging a teammate, applauding the supporters before sharing a high-ten and an embrace with the oncoming veteran. The embers had certainly died. The match had ‘stalemate’ written all over it. Garitano had switched to a pragmatic five-man midfield to prevent any defensive mishap and had left Williams without much support in attack. Barcelona had started without Lionel Messi and Luis Suarez was taken off in the 37th minute owing to an injury. Griezmann and Dembele seemed to have either run out of gunpowder or dampened it. Aduriz’s first share of playing time in his final La Liga season was destined to be the only highlight of the game. But the Basque must have conspired with the gods of football. How else do you explain ordinary men turning back time? With his first touch on the ball, within seconds of stepping onto the turf, Artiz Aduriz rewound the clock with his feet, the Basque air etched with its poetry. Even as Ander Capa was making up his mind to pick the right man for the throw-in that started this affair, you could see Aduriz, stealthily stepping away into space from a three-man defensive formation near the inside edge of the penalty box behind the defender closest to him–Nelson Semedo, who, like his two partners, Gerard Pique and Clement Lenglet, remained fixated on the movement of the ball. Raúl García received the throw-in. Under pressure, he lobbed the ball beyond the surrounding ring of yellow-shirted men towards the nearest corner for Capa to follow. Aduriz, careful with his steps, continued to escape the defenders’ radars. It was almost as if he had a covenant with the ball. Imprison their eyes as you fly through the air. In concealment, I shall wait for you. Capa chased the ball. It bounced once, but it bounced perfectly for him to hit it first-time for a cross. Along the touchline, Ernesto Valverde–hands in his pocket, a grimace on his face–foresaw what was coming, as he would later admit. The stealthy dance on the blind side of the defender while anticipating an airborne ball–the former Athletic coach knew it all too well. The covenant, meanwhile, remained intact. Aduriz waited. His rivals had eyes only for the flight of the ball–so she had them bound. And when she was close enough, the Basque–playing his final season in the red-and-white of Athletic–leapt in the air to greet it with the chilena. Goal! The Nervion frolicked along its course. San Mames let out a triumphant roar under the weight of its euphoric tenants. Iñaki Williams was celebrating as if he had finally scored that 50th goal for Athletic. Aduriz, meanwhile, roared with his pride and blew kisses towards the stands. 38 games later, he’ll say his goodbyes. Young players achieving miraculous feats in La Liga debuts will come along and make headlines that scream of first season, first match, first goal. But in Bilbao they know that Aduriz, like all 38-year-olds hitting chilenas, should be made into songs that are sung under flying banners, on quaking stands, with overflowing beer-mugs.+++1
Neymar: Brazil’s little misunderstood genius behind all the theatrics JULY 20, 2018 by ANUSHREE NANDE 1 Neymar at Russia 2018 came out with the reputation of a farceur, but behind everything else, there is a man who is already Brazil’s third highest goalscorer. Neymar: The Starman. (Art by Debanjan Chowdhury) Neymar: The Starman. (Art by Debanjan Chowdhury) Brazil versus Mexico, July 2018. Neymar’s finished his seventh roll on the floor and is writhing about in exaggerated agony even as the world watches and prepares to flay him for it. Since, the media has been flooded with everyone and their grandmum’s dogs having an opinion, particularly in the non-Brazilian outlets. On the other hand, Brazilian newspaper Globo ran a headline titled “Neymar has charmed Brazil but annoyed the whole world.” To understand that, one must go back in time. Barcelona versus Villareal, November 2015. The move is started by Neymar da Silva Santos Junior, who passes it wide to teammate Luis Suarez, before running into the opposition box, ready to receive the ball he knows is coming. He flicks it over his head, swivels around, and neatly slots it into the back of the net. All in the blink of an eye. His languid grace makes it look easy, joyful, this move and all his other tricks honed during his futsal and street football days. The sombrero kick, arcing like a rainbow that gives it its other name. There’s more than a touch of the ginga to it and therein lies the crux of what Neymar means to Brazil and Brazilian football. Neymar was still three years away from his first professional contract with FC Santos, when France kicked Brazil out of the 2006 World Cup in Germany. But his path to the future was already laid out before him, whether anyone was aware of it or not, and with it the crushing pressure and expectation of a country that lives for football and is unforgiving to even its heroes. That 2006 squad is important when understanding Neymar’s current position. The 2006 World Cup was the last major tournament for both Ronaldo and Roberto Carlos, the former already on the decline despite his inclusion and contributions, the latter announcing his retirement soon after Brazil’s exit. Adriano, another bright prospect seemingly destined for great things, was already fighting depression following the death of his father and had even been dropped from the team for a little while as a warning by coach Dunga. Soon after the tournament, he slipped into darkness and alcohol, never to fulfill his potential. And Kaka and Ronaldinho, the other two who made up the famed “magic quartet” prior to the 2006 World Cup with Ronaldo and Adriano, began their own slow but steady descent. On July 4, 2012, Brazil was 11th in the FIFA rankings, the first time the Selecao dropped out of the top ten since the rankings were created in 1993. On June 6, 2013, Brazil had their lowest-ever rank at number 22. Just like that, the return of Brazil’s Jogo Bonito was obliterated. Until Neymar. The lad from the Mogi das Cruzes municipality of Sao Paulo is one of the most talented players to come out of the country, even when you consider some of the legends. In his generation, he’s undisputedly the only one who has the requisite talents and quality to lead his country on the big stage; his cunning and trickery, the speed with which he thinks and moves harking back to the days of joyful football, back to the days when Brazil ruled the world with their unique brand of football and their exploits at the World Cup moulded the country’s identity. What makes it even more impressive is the fact that he is already the third-highest scorer for Brazil, behind Pele and Ronaldo, despite less than stellar support from inconsistent teammates, both up front and in the midfield. All the great Brazilian teams of the past had perfect foils for their star players, especially strikers (Pele and Rivelino, Jairzinho and Garrincha, Rivaldo and Ronaldinho; even Maradona had Valdano and Burruchaga) But, if you look at the 2010 and 2014 World Cup squads, you’ll see that apart from Robinho, the quality of the forwards (Luis Fabiano, Nilmar, Grafite, Hulk, Fred, Bernard, Jo etc) isn’t what you expect from the most successful country at the World Cup. At the same time, Ganso and Oscar have since failed to live up to their promise and Brazil’s search for an outright creative presence in the midfield continues. Under these circumstances, it’s amazing that Neymar, with 57 goals in 89 matches, is largely responsible for Brazil’s Olympic Gold, an Olympic silver, and a World Cup semi-final on home soil, though the final result is one that will always rankle if only for the fact that he watched helpless from the stands. For a country that places equal emphasis on the “volante” position, (each of their World-Cup-winning sides have had a stellar defensive midfielder, whether Gilberto, Dunga, or Clodoaldo), the pressure to perform, and to win, falls to the playmakers. The silky, smooth, exuberant football Brazil is known for. And before Neymar, they really haven’t had anyone who fulfilled that role or their initial promise in a while. They haven’t really come close to a player who can legitimately claim to be right up there with Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo. Say what you will about him, but Neymar’s a team player mostly adored by his national colleagues. In their win against Mexico, it was his backheel that started the move that led to the goal, his sixth at World Cups. He’s needed only 38 attempts on goal, while Messi needed 67 and Ronaldo 74. He’s also created the most number of goalscoring chances (16), living up to the billing of their star playmaker. Yet, in the public and media eye, his theatrical antics have wiped all of that away, leaving only a pantomime figure. The larger footballing narrative needs a villain and they’ve found one in Neymar Junior who makes it almost too easy. There’s no question that he exaggerates contact, no question that he’s not bothered about coming across like a third-rate actor. Here’s a 26 year old that seems almost proud of his stubbornly adolescent streak, what many have called his Peter Pan syndrome; it maybe goes with the €222 million tag of the most expensive transfer fee of the current PSG star. But there’s a statistic that isn’t mentioned often enough. The amount of times the compact Brazilian has been fouled. As clear from this disciplinary record, 23 is a number far higher than any of the other players, even Cristiano and Messi. Not to say that it condones rolling around, but he’s a targeted man on the pitch even without the pressures of what he represents for his football-mad country. The chance of international success and a redemption of their identity after a slow, twelve-year wait.+++1
Argentina at Russia 2018: The self-destructive version of viveza-criolla JULY 16, 2018 by JOEL SLAGLE 1 There was a lot to dislike about Argentina’s conduct at this World Cup, and it’s important to remember they have a long history of defying moral boundaries. Argentina fans are not an easy bunch to please, and the team's antics on the pitch can sometimes leave the public disgruntled. Art by Charbak Dipta Argentina fans are not an easy bunch to please, and the team’s antics on the pitch can sometimes leave the public disgruntled. Art by Charbak Dipta The best thing to come out of England’s run in the latter stages of this World Cup is the hue and cry the media raised over Colombia’s use of the dark arts. It magically transformed progressive, globalist citizens of the world into Victorian gentlemen complete with top hat, tails, and a great deal of moral outrage. They tut-tut, shake their heads at the effrontery of those foreign fellas pressuring the referee, and adjourn to the study for conversations about the purity of sport on the playing fields of Eton with cigars and sherry. I can get behind that sort of opprobrium though. Indeed, I am at my most comfortable in this environment of footballing umbrage. I attended a strict religious school as a young man where John Bunyan’s Pilgrim’s Progress was studied in great detail every year of secondary school. It is an allegorical novel that follows the protagonist Christian as he makes his way through the world to the afterlife. It was popular with my teachers because it provided straightforward moral lessons. I could not have told you the first thing about Homer’s Iliad or Tolstoy’s War and Peace, but I could talk at length about the allegory of the Slough of Despond in the First Part of Bunyan’s classic. As I got further and further from that phase of life, I thought I outgrew the easy moralism that I received as a student. But then I watched Argentinian players needle and surround the referee at this World Cup – the pietism and religiose outrage came flooding back. What a bunch of scoundrels, I thought (my inner monologue has the same vocabulary as the easily offended Victorian gentlemen in the previous paragraph). This should not have surprised me. I knew Argentina and its history of gamesmanship. Osvaldo Zubeldia’s Estudiantes and his antifutbol in the 60’s made a mockery of the “cheaters never prosper” proverb. They kicked, punched, goaded, stamped, pinched, headbutted, and spat their way to three consecutive Copa Libertadores titles. The provocateurs also triumphed in the 1968 Intercontinental Cup (thanks to a goal from Juan Sebastian Veron’s dear old dad) over Manchester United after outrageously needling Nobby Stiles and George Best into red cards over two legs. They followed up this scandalous performance by reaching new lows against AC Milan in the 1969 final, resulting in players being arrested for assault. The stories and conspiracy theories surrounding Argentina’s World Cup win in 1978 are too outrageous to be false. And, of course, there is the most iconic act of foul play in all of football, Diego Maradona’s 1986 Hand of God. The willingness to defy social norms by shamelessly cheating to get ahead has its own term in the Spanish around the Rio de la Plata: viveza criolla. As Jorge Luis Borges pointed out, Argentinians lack moral conduct, not intellectual conduct. I knew the history of the team and the sociology of viveza, but I did not know that I would still react so strongly to it based on my past puritanical schooling. Discovering this, it brought into focus my inability to enjoy antiheroes and picaresque literature (and La Liga). Argentina’s unsuccessful time at Russia 2018 would read very much like darkly funny picaresque novel in three parts. Part I: Qualifying The first chapters consist of the football association’s president and scoundrel-in-chief, Julio Grondona. He ruled the AFA with an iron fist within a velvet glove of bribery and kickbacks for 35 years. Ed Malyon put it best, suggesting his hidden bank balance resembled a phone number. Don Julio was the epitome of the South American political truism that if one steals, he must get things done. Upon his death, two pretenders to the throne arose; the organisation was so corrupt, however, its 75 members managed to vote 76 times. The election was postponed. Messi, after a painful loss in the Copa America, retired from the national team until it could get its act together. Eventually, a successor was named and qualification for the World Cup began in earnest. Or at least it should have. Instead, the new AFA head was charged with fraud, and no one left had the administrative abilities to put together a team for the Olympics. The manager, Tata Martino, resigned in disgust. The new coach, Edgardo Bauza, only won three out of eight matches though, and the newest AFA president attempted to shove him out. It didn’t work, and Bauza was given a golden handshake that the AFA could ill afford after Grondona’s pillaging. Messi returned to the fold, Jorge Sampaoli was appointed head coach, and they managed to just get over the line and qualify. Part II: Russian Road Trip At this point, the story becomes a road movie following the ensemble cast of characters around Russia: Sampaoli is the nominal captain of the venture who is comically undermined at every turn, Mascherano is the wily veteran, Otamendi the (un)lovable rogue, Higuain the deadly striker who concentrates so hard on proving he can do it in the big games to the point of distraction, and Caballero is the keeper who must still be wondering how ended up there. And then there is Messi, the golden goose. He was carted around like Dustin Hoffman in Rain Man to make everyone else’s fortune for them. In the first game in Moscow, however, he failed to convert a penalty and Argentina had to settle for a point against Iceland. As painful as that was, the trip to Nizhny Novgorod was worse. Croatia rattled three past the inept South Americans, and Sampaoli was left begging fans for forgiveness – the lowest point in the second act. They made the trip to St. Petersburg more out of obligation than hope, but the chancers in the sky blue and white pulled it out at the very last. Argentina would indeed make it to the knockout rounds. When coverage of the match threatened to turn serious, Maradona provided the comic relief in the stands by extending his middle fingers, praying to heaven with arms outstretched, dancing with a Nigerian fan, and falling asleep. Part III: Climax and Denouement Having avoided the embarrassment of an early exit, Argentinian players then set about to use all of their streetsmarts to get past a French team oozing talent in Kazan. Unfortunately, this was the part of the story where society’s rules and structures crush the picaresque hero. That and Kylian Mbappe. Up until the very last, though, I was convinced these rascals would pull some sort of trick or con to make it through to the quarter finals. Even if these beaten men could summon one last deception, there were four video assistant referees to spot any sort chicanery. It is for the best that Argentina left so early. It now has the time and space to step back and look at events with critical eye. The slapdash approach of the AFA has squandered this generation’s chance for glory; they must not be given the chance to ruin another. For too long, the game was run by grifters and embezzlers. It is time for the sober administrators. It is fitting that all of this action took place in the land of Soviet writers Ilya Ilf and Evgeny Petrov. These two wrote the seminal picaresque novel of the Soviet Union, The Twelve Chairs. In it, two con-men travel the country in search of a treasure. At a particularly low point one remarks, “We’re also floating with the stream. People push us under and we come up again, although they aren’t too pleased about it.” Heaven only knows what 2022 holds for Messi. He will probably make one final stab at football’s biggest prize, a la Maradona in 1994. One suspects it will end on a slightly different note for Leo though. There will also be a new cast of characters: technicians like Paulo Dybala will feature more prominently and streetfighters like Mauro Icardi will punch their way into the setup. They will need every trick in the book to overcome the institutional problems of these wilderness years though. Argentina is down now, but it will be back. And I will still tut-tut disapprovingly at their antics while also admiring their damnable resilience.+++1
A walk through Hungary: Once the axis of football, now a distant admirer JULY 22, 2018 by ALEX DIEKER 2 Our in-house writer visited Budapest, the focal-point for the best of European football not so long back, and saw signs that clearly portrayed how far Hungary have receded. Hungary: The heartbeat of European football in its glory days. Art by Akshay Narwekar. Hungary: The heartbeat of European football in its glory days. Art by Akshay Narwekar. The World Cup is here. A sporting competition unrivalled by any other. For the better part of a century, nations around our beautiful world have fought tooth and nail just to take part in the prestigious competition. When the World Cup Final rolls around, everyone watches. From Uruguay’s 1950 upset over Brazil, to 1974 when West Germany beat the Netherlands, to last time – in 2014 – when a young Mario Götze came off the bench to down Lionel Messi’s Argentina, the finale always has something to show. If you had no knowledge of footballing history, the thought of the Hungarian national team in a World Cup Final would never cross your mind. Even the qualification for the tournament itself seems a futile expectation of today’s team; not since the 1980s has Hungary qualified for the World Cup. Yet, tracking all the way back to the 1950s, the Hungarians were the most feared footballing team in all of Europe. — The year is 1953. In preparation for the next year’s World Cup, Hungary travel to London to take on an England side unbeaten at home in nearly a century. Wembley Stadium is filled to the brim, teeming with support for the team representing the home of football. But the Hungarians don’t care. Ferenc Puskás and friends go up 4-2 at halftime and walk out 6-3 winners. Quick, easy, and comfortable, a result that mirrors Uruguay’s victory over Brazil three years prior in its shock value but ultimate predictability. But that was then, over half a century ago. It’s a different story now. — “Perfect!” My heart skipped a beat when, in a Budapest night club, I peeked over my shoulder. A group of young Hungarian men were all laughing as they stood over a foosball table. I’d grown tired of singing karaoke and became enthralled at the idea of getting to know a few of the city’s natives by talking about a bit of futball. As I walked over, I quickly realised that the group wasn’t laughing and shouting about a high-stakes match of foosball, but instead about the drinking game they’d placed atop the table. I dejectedly walked back to the dancefloor, knowing full well that it would’ve been a great chance to meet a few fellow football fans. The drinking game – with all respect intended – was an affront, almost offensive, at the time. It’s only foosball, but it was the single greatest representation of the game I’d come across throughout my few days in the city. My one chance to express myself and connect with my host country. Walking the streets of Budapest – Hungary’s capital and by far its largest city – you’d never expect it to be a footballing country. Or, at least, they do a pretty darn good job of hiding the fact that the two-sided city is the heartbeat of what was once the world’s greatest football association. During the twentieth century, cafés in Budapest were the intellectual think tanks of writers, politicians, theorists, and, occasionally, football fans. Like in Vienna, patrons of cafés in Budapest were valued for their intellect, not socio-economic status. The minds that created the unbeatable Hungarian national team were likely formed in these very shops. — One of the only times the magnificent city gave away its love of football was immediately upon my arrival. I was becoming mentally drained by both the jet lag and the view of graffitied buildings and abandoned warehouses as I rode along the freeway from the airport. As we got closer to downtown Budapest, a silver, futuristic-looking Groupama Aréna, home of club side Ferencváros, ominously rose above a seemingly depleted part of the city. Oft-mistaken as a club in the namesake of Hungarian legend Ferenc Puskás, Ferencváros are the most successful club in Hungarian top-flight history. In the 1950s, when the country was on top, however, that spot was reserved for Budapest Honvéd: The Army’s team. Like East Germany’s Berlin-based clubs would thirty years later, Honvéd benefited from the government’s aid, or corrupt activities. They possessed most of the best players on the national team, including Puskás, which led to a hegemony of the league in the early fifties. The morally questionable dominance by Honvéd under Soviet rule had undeniable benefits for the Magical Magyars – the Hungarian national football team. Five of the most important players were training together at Honvéd during the club season, which made tactical innovation with Hungary that much easier. The 2-3-3-2 that tore apart England at Wembley in 1953 – “The Match of the Century” – wouldn’t have been possible without the conglomeration of world-class stars at Budapest Honvéd. That 6-3 victory against the creators of the game certainly gave the Hungarian people confidence headed into the 1954 World Cup. The Magyars made it to the 1938 Final, eventually falling short, but this team was unlike anything seen before. Known as the Aranycsapat, the Golden Team, Hungary were undefeated for four years as they kicked off in Switzerland. After thrashing South Korea 9-0, West Germany succumbed to an 8-3 defeat at the hands of Puskás’ men. Hungary escaped a hell-hole of a fight that was a quarter-final against Brazil, 4-2, that saw three players sent off and countless scraps on and off the pitch. After beating Uruguay 4-2 in extra time, the Hungarians were on their way to what seemed like an easy World Cup championship against familiar foes West Germany. Everything seemed perfectly lined up for Hungary to become the second European nation to win the World Cup. Nobody could best the Golden Team, especially with the world watching. But, with the hindsight of half a century passed by, we know that some of the best international teams have a tendency to fail at the last hurdle. Even the seemingly unbeatable, undefeatable teams see their veil of superiority pierced. A view from the Buda Castle. The historic side of the city, Buda, is littered with memorials. On the right, a view of Pest: the flatter, more modern side of Budapest. Below the streets of Buda, the part of Budapest on the hilly side of the Danube, lies a sprawling cave system. An underground memorial to a caver who passed away in that very cave struck a chord with me. He was, I’m sure, a phenomenal caver, well-drilled and diligent in his work. But a lack of focus, or perhaps lack of luck, led to his demise. Hungary got off to a great start, but despite going down 2-0, the Germans were able to claw back and take a 3-2 advantage. A last-minute goal by Puskás was unjustly ruled out for offside, condemning the Hungarians to a shocking loss. The Germans had changed personnel and tactics after losing heavily to Hungary in the group stage; the formation in the final resembling somewhat of a lopsided 4-3-3, something even more futuristic than the Golden Team’s setup at the time. In the blink of an eye, Hungary’s hopes for a World Cup were dashed. Budapest’s dominant club sides and famous players had fallen short in what we now know to be their last shot at global dominance. The successors of the Austrian Wunderteam and predecessors of the Dutch TotaalVoetbal movement would go down in history as no more than runners-up. — Buda is for all intents and purposes the charming side of the city. During a tour of the Hungarian Parliament, a guide made note of his residence in Buda in somewhat of a self-validating statement. However, this part of Budapest is not where the lively night clubs are, or the famous restaurants and gelato shops. Buda is full of history: the city’s castle, cobblestone streets, and large church steeples. Perhaps the high esteem in which Buda is held is a key into the mindset of the Budapestian, or more broadly the Hungarian. The country’s history is not something to be forgotten, but something to be remembered. Cherished. The early Hungarians’ movement from Asia to the Carpathian Basin in Central Europe, the riches of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, and the atrocities committed against some of its people during WWII are all remembered throughout various locations in the city. Yet, some fans of Hungarian football would argue that their country’s history has been dwelled upon just as much as it has been cherished, in a footballing sense at least. Hungary made a few more robust attempts at world dominance, but none came as close. Nowadays, a knockout stage berth in the 2016 European Championships is something to celebrate. The Hungarian FA is making strides to resurrect more pitches around the country, pitches that were ignored and built over in the decades following 1954. Strides are being made, but those strides are not very long compared to other European nations. When walking the streets of Pest, the crowded side of Budapest, the culture of a living, breathing nation is at your feet. The Jewish Quarter is packed with phenomenal food, rundown buildings fashioned into nightclubs, and countless sights like the Parliament are all within walking distance. Budapest is truly a magnificent, global city. There’s an issue, though, when it comes to sport. It’s not the lack of space; plenty of cities around Europe produce fine footballers despite crowded streets. It’s not the lifestyle of its people either; Budapest is full of young, healthy Hungarians. It seems to be the culture. Football was featured on televisions at the bars, but nowhere else was there a sign of football. No people walking around in kits, no kid walking down the street with a ball at his or her feet. I had to travel to Margitsziget, an island on the Danube, to catch my first pickup footy match. Perhaps the beauty of football has surpassed the Hungarians. They feel that the Golden Team of the 1950s was their time on the world stage and nothing more can be expected. You wouldn’t blame them, as the shocking loss in 1954 contaminated the brilliant memories of the years prior. In this modern day, though, the turbulent political climate evokes memories of another famous match. It occurred two years later, and while its footballing impact is ultimately nonexistent, its impact on the lives of millions is incalculable. The Luzhniki Stadium in Moscow, Russia will host this year’s World Cup Final. The arena’s original name was the Central Lenin Stadium, and it played host to a match between the Soviet Union and Hungary. In 1956, Hungary was a satellite state of the USSR, a communist state wringing in the grasp of the Soviets’ iron fist. The match was seen as yet another way to assert Soviet dominance over its surrounding countries. Besides, the USSR had never lost a home match. But the Hungarians had a particular knack of rolling up to world powers’ home turf and — excuse my French — smacking the sh*t out of them in front of their own fans. Over 100,000 Russians had the pleasure of watching Hungary score early and hold on to their one goal advantage for 74 minutes. It was a disaster for Soviet propaganda, but more importantly a match that helped to ignite a fire of Hungarian nationalism. A nationalism that would shortly lead to rebellion. A month after the famous victory, protestors outside the Hungarian Parliament building in Budapest were shot at by the secret police. Hungary was fully discontent with their regime and took action into their own hands. While the revolution could have been predicted in the prior months, the events at the Central Lenin Stadium fueled Hungarians’ sense of pride in themselves. After all, this was only two years after World Cup fever swept the nation. Alas, Hungarians were unsuccessful in their revolt against Soviet forces, but the state has continuously improved since the fall of the USSR in 1989. Hungary is now a middle-power in the world, not the powerhouse it once was but certainly a strong state in its independence. But, Hungary’s footballing structure has failed to improve alongside it. We will probably never see a team like the one consisting of the monumental Puskás, the prolific Sándor Kocsis, and the innovative Nándor Hidegkuti. The mastermind behind the Hungarians’ paradigm-shifting tactics, Gusztáv Sebes, was the pivot from football’s rigid school of thought to its modern, fluid style of play. Sebes was embodied by the Netherlands’ Rinus Michels and Johan Cruijff, whose influence can now be seen with the likes of Pep Guardiola and Marcelo Bielsa. But Hungary’s football hasn’t improved alongside these innovations and is now left at the doorstep of the European elite, unable to reach up and knock at the door. There was absolutely no way I was going to spend 10,000 Hungarian Forint on a replica national team jersey in a crowded Budapest market, but I was glad to see it. The pristine red, green, and white kit was a small reply to my unspoken question, “When will I see anything football-related here, in what was once the capital city of the sport?” But then again, the great team of the 50s donned an all-white uniform, a far cry from the red-covered jersey and green socks today. The white shorts remain; they’ve always remained. But, just like football in Budapest, the Hungarian kit has largely moved on from its glory days. A history never to be forgotten, but a history never to be replicated.+++1
Table Tennis Stance and Ready Position (with Fan Zhendong) Table Tennis Stance and Ready Position (with Fan Zhendong) November 15, 2019 by Ben Larcombe Table tennis stance is the second aspect of table tennis technique that I teach to my players. The first is the correct shakehands table tennis grip. This post is part of my How to Play Table Tennis series. Today we’ll be whizzing through how to stand, where to stand, and why. And we’ll be using the great Fan Zhendong as our example! Before I start, I want to clarify the difference between “stance” and “ready position”. You may have heard people use both terms almost interchangeably, but here’s how I define the two; Ready position describes the generic, neutral stance that you might expect to see adopted by a table tennis player before they receive serve – feet quite wide apart, knees bent, upper body crouched forward, both arms out in front of you, and the bat in a neutral position. The ready position doesn’t change. If I say “ready position”, that is always what I want to see. Stance describes the way in which a player is standing during any stage of a game. For example, when serving there are correct and incorrect stances that are specific to each individual service. Therefore, the correct stance is dependent on the stroke being played. You don’t want to play a forehand loop with the stance you’d use for touching a short ball to your forehand! Unfortunately, I don’t have the time or the space to describe one-by-one the correct stance for all the possible strokes and serves. In this post, I’m going to focus specifically on the correct ready position and helping you to improve your generic table tennis stance. This article was originally published in March 2013 but was updated in November 2019. Contents Table Tennis Ready Position 1. Feet 2. Knees 3. Upper Body 4. Arms 5. Bat Table Tennis Stance “Pretend you’re a goalkeeper!” “A goalkeeper with a Zimmer frame!” Upper Body: Zimmer Frame Ready Position vs Stance Where to stand Have your bat in the centre Table Tennis Ready Position This might sound super basic but you’d be surprised how many experienced table tennis players have fundamental problems with their table tennis stance! Here’s a quick tip. Don’t play standing bolt upright as if you’re waiting for a bus! ping pong standing bolt upright The table tennis ready position has five key components. 1. Feet You need quite a wide base when playing table tennis. From my experience beginners are far more likely to have their feet too close together than too far apart. Some coaches say feet should be parallel to each other and one shoulder-width apart. But I would go further than that and say that your feet should be somewhere between 1.5 and 2 shoulder-widths apart – like Fan Zhendong! Having your feet wider apart will give you a more stable base, help you to move, lower your centre of gravity, get you down closer to table height, and enable you to transfer your weight from foot-to-foot to develop power. Also, it’s a good idea to have your non-playing foot slightly further forward than your playing foot. For example, a right-hander would have their left foot slightly in front of their right – making them not 100% square to the table. 2. Knees If your legs are completely straight, you will find yourself constantly off and unable to move to wide balls. Therefore, your knees should always be slightly bent – like Fan (above). Don’t bend your knees too much and make sure you don’t have them bent in a squat position either. A slight bend is all you need. 3. Upper Body When playing table tennis your body should be crouched. This means that your head and shoulders are forward and slightly down. It’s also why Fan Zhendong always looks like he doesn’t have a neck in photos! This forward-leaning ‘crouch position’ will stop you from entering into a ‘squat position’ and will shift your weight onto your toes (the balls of your feet) which will make it much easier to move. That would be poor form for a squat but it’s great form for table tennis. This crouched forward position should also stop you from drifting away from the table as you play your shots. This is a common problem for players that have their weight on their heels. 4. Arms Your arms should be out in front of your body, and forearms parallel with the ground (again, like Fan). This both helps with the crouched/leaning forwards stance and also makes it much easier to play your shots. One thing I’m always banging on about is keeping your elbows out in front of your body. I see many beginners playing with their elbows back and “tucked in” against their sides. This is not good technique. It will almost halve your ‘reach’ for wide balls and destroy your chance of ever playing a powerful shot. Finally, most players try and keep their free arm parallel with their playing arm, for balance. 5. Bat The bat/hand/wrist is the final component of a correct ready position. We always assume that we do not know where the ball is going (even if we are doing a regular exercise) and therefore we keep our bat in a neutral position – pointing the top edge of the racket towards our opponent. That way it is possible for us to play either a backhand or a forehand, on-demand. You want your bat to be an extension of your forearm – not angled up or down. In order to make that happen, you need to keep your wrist straight but allow the weight of the bat to drop it down. This is best explained with a photo. You see how Fan Zhendong’s wrist isn’t bent in or out but he has allowed it to drop slightly so that his bat is in a horizontal position. If he had kept his wrist up the bat would be going up at roughly a 45-degree angle and would no longer be an extension of his forearm. For more help regarding this, you need to check out my blog post all about table tennis grip. Table Tennis Stance As I said at the beginning, this article is all about helping you to improve your generic table tennis stance. I often call this your “shape”. I’ll say to my players, “Keep your shape”, when I notice them slipping out of a correct stance in whatever way. And sometimes it’s easier to grasp that correct “shape” by using an image or analogy rather than with detailed instructions for each part of the body. “Pretend you’re a goalkeeper!” Whenever I see a player with an unhelpful stance often all I need to say is… Pretend you’re a goalkeeper ready to receive a penalty. …and, provided the player has at least some simple knowledge of football, they tend to immediately get into a much better stance for table tennis. goalkeeper penalty stance You’d be surprised how similar the two stances are! The following is taken from Soccer Coach Weekly… The ready position is the position that goalkeepers need to adopt as they prepare to stop a shot… Feet shoulder width apart. Knees slightly bent. Weight on the balls of the feet. Hands at waist height. Elbows tucked in. Shoulders forward (nose over toes). Balanced. Head steady, eyes on the ball. Replace the word “goalkeeper” with “table tennis player” and that could be straight out of a table tennis coaching manual! The goalkeeper analogy usually fixes #1 and #2 – feet and knees (the lower body). The only problem is, it doesn’t correct #3, #4 or #5 – upper body, arms and bat. I noticed this recently when I was training Harrie. Most of the time; his back is straight, his shoulders are back, and his bat is down. So I came up with this instead. Pretend you’re a goalkeeper… “A goalkeeper with a Zimmer frame!” Upper Body: Zimmer Frame Ready Position vs Stance It’s important to remember the difference between ready position and stance. The ready position is the basics but sometimes stance will have to be changed for certain shots. For example, if you are ‘opening up’ and topspinning a backspin ball with your forehand you may start in the neutral ready position but very quickly your stance will have to be adapted. You might need your feet slightly wider, your right knee slightly more bent and your right arm and bat closer to the ground. However, the general principles are the same. If your weight is on your heel something has probably gone wrong. If your back is straight, or your elbows glued to your sides or your knees bent in a ‘squat position’ your technique is probably not quite correct. Here’s a great video of Alois from Ping Skills going through the key components of the basic stance and explaining all about balance and stability. Where to stand I’ve spent a lot of time covering “how” to stand. Before we wrap up, let’s briefly think about “where” to stand (in relation to the table). Here are a few tips… Have your bat in the centre Once you start playing table tennis you will realise, quite quickly, that you can reach much further on your forehand side than your backhand side. Therefore, standing completely in the centre of the table is a bad idea. Instead, look to have your bat in line with the centre of the table. If you’re right-handed, this will mean standing slightly left of centre. If you’re left-handed, this will mean standing slightly to the right. Give yourself some space Another common error I see in beginners is standing way too close to the table. Some even have there legs touching the edge of it! Standing this close gives you little time to react to shot, makes it difficult to move, and often leads to you standing upright (instead of being in the correct “crouched” position). Take half a step back. Not too far, as this will make shots harder to play accurately but just enough to give yourself a bit of room. Here’s a great video on ready position by Stephen Foster for AllAboutTableTennis. He covers ‘where to stand’ as well as ‘how to stand’ in a good amount of detail. And that’s everything you need to know about table tennis stance and the ready position!+++1
Are You Standing Too Close to the Table Tennis Table? Are You Standing Too Close to the Table Tennis Table? September 12, 2019 by Ben Larcombe This is a bit of a follow-up to my blog post last month. Back then, I asked the question, are your serves going too short? Today, my focus shifts to your stance and I’m asking you, are you standing too close to the table? So many beginners and intermediate players stand too close to the table! I’m not exactly sure why this is. But during 10 years of coaching table tennis, I’ve constantly had to tell my players to take half a step back – if not more. Can you touch the table? When you’re in your typical ready position to should be able to reach out and touch the table with your free hand. But only just. So, when you’re standing there waiting to receive serve, ask yourself, “Can I touch the table?” Some players even reach out and touch the table before every point as a habit to check they are a good distance from the table! The same goes for when you’re in a standard counterhit or topspin rally. Not that you’ll have time to check. But you should be able to lean forward, stretch out your free arm, and touch the end of the table – without moving your feet. If you can’t, you might be standing a bit too far away. Unless you’re in a loop-to-loop rally and you’ve stepped back deliberately. Can you touch too much of the table? The thing is, most of the beginners and intermediate players I’ve coached aren’t standing too far away from the table to be able to touch it. Instead, they’re standing so close to the table that they can touch most of their own half! Take the girl in the photo at the top of this post as an example. It looks like she’s just knocking up but even so, if she leant forward and stretched out her free arm she’d be able to touch a lot of her side of the table. This is telling me she may be standing too close to the table. And this positioning is what I see time and time again when I watch local league table tennis. The majority of players are probably standing too far forward by half a step. Sam naturally did this Sam used to always stand a bit too close to the table. I’d tell him over-and-over to take half a step back, and he would, only to find himself right back up to the table by the next point. And then towards the end of our year-long challenge, he just took a whole step backwards and started playing matches from back there. And he loved it! Immediately, he had more time. He felt more relaxed. And he cut down on a lot of unforced errors. That big step back turned out to be a rather big step forward for his table tennis! Tweaking Harrie’s stance and ready position I’m currently trying to get Harrie to do a similar thing. Like most intermediate table tennis players, Harrie tends to stand a bit too far forward and a little bit too upright. This makes it more difficult to move, gives him less time to react to incoming shots, and makes attacking deep balls very tricky (because you haven’t given the deep ball enough time/space to rise before you have to hit it). Below is a screenshot from a Stefan Feth training video showing the same principle. Stefan Feth isn't too close to the table Here’s he’s making sure he can reach forward and touch the table with the tip of his racket. But only just! Notice that his head is still quite close to the table. But his feet are quite a bit further back. This is the key! This is the change that the majority of intermediate players need to make. You can keep your head pretty much where it’s always been, but your feet need to move backwards and your body needs to have more of a forward lean. That’s the difference in stance between a beginner/intermediate player and an advanced/elite player! A correct stance is key! If you’re currently standing upright and you take half a step back and remain standing upright, you’re going to feel like you’re too far away from the table. You’ll end up moving your feet back in again. But if you’re currently standing upright and you take half a step back and you start leaning forwards, your head is going to be basically in the same place. You’ll feel comfortable. But the fact that your feet are further back will enable you to play much better table tennis! To really bang this home, here’s a Ben Larcombe artistic treat for you… Are you standing too close to the table Hopefully, that helps demonstrate exactly what I mean. The dotted green circle illustrates all of the extra space Mr Advanced has to play his shots due to the fact that he’s taken a step back. Mr Advanced isn’t going to get bunched up by any shots that come deep. His body isn’t going to be in the way like it is for Mr Intermediate. And yet, because he’s leaning forward, his head is basically as close to the table as Mr Intermediate. Give it a go… As I said, I remember when Sam mastered this. It must have been October or November. Right near the end of our year of table tennis. But it made him feel so much more comfortable in his matches. So why not give it a go this week. Take a step backwards from the table with your feet. But make a big effort to lean forwards much more than you usually do, so that your head is still fairly close to the table. Like my coach Mike Pantin always used to say… Nose over your toes! And, in fact, if you look at Stefan Feth… His nose is quite a bit further forward than his toes, even!+++1
Butterfly Amicus Basic Robot Review August 30, 2018 by Ben Larcombe Butterfly Amicus Basic Table Tennis Robot Review The Butterfly Amicus Basic table tennis robot is the cheapest robot from Butterfly and is produced in Hungary. All three Amicus robots look exactly the same, it is only the control panel that changes between versions. This basic robot has fewer options and functions. Here is our full review. Butterfly is the biggest brand in table tennis but they have teamed up with the Hungarian company LCS Sport to create their latest range of robots, that were released in 2014. There are three options available; Basic, Advance, and Professional. LCS Sport also sells the robots under the brand name “Power Pong”. The Power Pong 3000 is the same as the Butterfly Amicus Professional. BUTTERFLY AMICUS BASIC Here’s everything you need to know about the Butterfly Amicus Basic table tennis robot… All Butterfly Amicus robots are easy to carry and set-up – they attach safely to one end of the table. Amicus robots can send up to 120 balls per minute. They also have three heads allowing them to deliver variable amounts of topspin, backspin, sidespin and no spin. You can also adjust the height of the robot head. These are top quality robots that really stand out from the others on sale. The following description comes directly from Butterfly… Excellent for high-intensity training of stroke technique and footwork. Six balls per exercise with different position. Spin, speed, and trajectory adjustable. Random function gives balls with a natural scattering. And here’s the Butterfly video demonstrating the features of their new Amicus robots… This is a basic table tennis robot that is aimed at new players looking to use a robot for developing simple stroke technique and footwork. THE REVIEW The Butterfly Amicus Basic table tennis robot is a very good entry-level robot. I really like how lightweight and easy to transport it is. After having a Practice Partner 50 myself (Y&T V-989) I understand the importance of this. My robot was very heavy and difficult to move around. The Amicus Basic comes with a bag to carry it in and only weighs 6kg. My Practice Partner 50 weighed in at 22kg! The Amicus Basic does everything that you would expect from a simple robot. It can provide you with balls of every spin, and no spin – which is a nice addition. Not all robots are able to give no spin balls. You are also able to control the amount of spin – this wasn’t an option with my Practice Partner 50. Another feature that I really like is the random function. It means you can set the robot to deliver balls randomly over the table. Playing with a robot and doing loads of regular patterns can make you a bit predictable and less able to adjust to surprise placements. This random setting should help a lot to address that problem. The main drawback to the Amicus Basic is that it doesn’t have some of the fancy features of the Amic Advance and Professional. If you are looking for a very simple robot then that won’t bother you at all. However, if you like the idea of having a “mini-computer” built into your robot that can remember drills and even gives you game-like situations that start with a serve, then you might be better off going for one of the more expensive Amicus options. Finally, I’m pleased to say that the Butterfly Amicus Basic table tennis robot works well with both the old celluloid 40mm balls and the new plastic 40+ ones. For a while, I know a lot of players were worried that the new balls wouldn’t work in their robots due to the small increase in size – but they do. You can read our ball reviews here. BUY THE ROBOT You can buy the Butterfly Amicus Basic robot in the US from Megaspin. If you are in the UK TeesSport are the Butterfly dealer. Megaspin.net: The Amicus Basic retails for $1,259.99. TeesSport: The Amicus Basic retails for £809.99. Or why not check out our favorite table tennis robot, the Newgy Robo-Pong 2050. The Robo-Pong 2050 is the top-of-the-range robot from US company Newgy. It is very reasonably priced and can do everything you might want from a table tennis robot. Amazon.co.uk: Available for £650. It is imported from the USA. Amazon.com: Much better value at $749 (roughly £500). Tabletennis11.com: Available for €890.00, with free shipping worldwide. You might be interested in reading Ben’s popular article The Best Table Tennis Robots, which is available on his Expert Table Tennis blog. And don’t forget to check out all of our other Table Tennis Robot Reviews as well. Have you used the Butterfly Amicus Basic yourself? What did you think of it? Please share your experiences and leave a review below in the comments.+++1
“Hand Not Shoulder” – The Secret to Effortless Loops (Part 2) “Hand Not Shoulder” – The Secret to Effortless Loops (Part 2) November 6, 2018 by Ben Larcombe Last week I shared “Pause & Snap“, one of my many table tennis mantras, as the secret to effortless forehand and backhand loops. This week, I’m disclosing another table tennis mantra that I believe will help you add quality to your looping – especially if you find yourself too tense/stiff. Harrie often gets stuck playing very “big” loops because his arm is all locked up, but this motto seems to help! “Hand Not Shoulder” I say this a lot. Particularly when I’m coaching Harrie. I got it from Alex Perry (an ex-England player and coach). Here’s the gist of what he said to me during one of our training sessions at Grantham Academy back in 2009… Beginners play table tennis with their shoulder, swinging their whole arm at the ball. As they improve they begin to play more with their elbows, giving them a bit more control and spin. Good players play with their hands. They learning ‘feeling’ and this is all in the hand – below the wrist. The professionals play with their fingers! It was an idea that immediately made sense to me, and I’ve been using it myself ever since. The beginner serves with his shoulder. Paul Drinkhall serves with his fingers. The intermediate player hit a backhand with his elbow. Liam Pitchford does it with his fingers. Now learning to play table tennis ‘with your fingers’ is going to take time. That’s the end goal. But don’t expect it to happen overnight. These guys are professionals for a reason. They’ve been working at this every day for 15+ years. But… I believe most intermediate players are able to master playing with their hand (instead of their shoulder or elbow) fairly quickly – provided they start consciously thinking about it in training. The shoulder loop vs the hand loop Spotting the visual difference between a ‘shoulder loop’ and a ‘hand loop’ isn’t easy. Experienced coaches will be able to do it and tell you whether you are doing it right or not, but that doesn’t mean you’ll be able to see it. However, you should be able to feel the difference. Harrie’s forehand loop is often very ‘shoulder-y’. This is just one of his natural bad habits. But once I start saying “Hand Not Shoulder” to him he’s quickly able to change from a ‘shoulder loop’ to a ‘hand loop’. It’s not that he can’t do it. It’s just that he often isn’t doing it by default. I believe that a lot of intermediate players are the same. That’s why “Hand Not Shoulder” is my second secret to effortless loops. Keep saying it to yourself over and over and I reckon you’ll be able to add a lot of quality to your current loops without really having to change anything. Just the act of thinking “Hand Not Shoulder” while you play should immediately enable you to play better quality forehand and backhand loops! Try it yourself… Why don’t you give it a go next time you’re knocking up and looping against a friend? Just keep telling yourself “Hand Not Shoulder” as you loop and focus on brushing the ball with your hand, whilst still keeping the rest of your loop technique the same. It works for all of the loop variations – slow loops, fast loops, and loop drives. This has to be one of the easiest ways to immediately add quality to your loops, without spending loads of time and money on extra coaching/training. And don’t forget last week’s mantra either, “Pause & Snap“. In fact, perhaps you can either combine the two to create some sort of super looping mantra… “Pause & Hand” – wait a split second and then fast brush with your hand. Good luck with your looping!+++1
3 Tips for Developing ‘Feeling’ in Table Tennis 3 Tips for Developing ‘Feeling’ in Table Tennis December 11, 2018 by Ben Larcombe Have you ever heard a fellow table tennis player described as having great ‘feeling’? It’s clearly a good thing, but what does it actually mean? And how do we improve our table tennis ‘feeling’? According to my good friend EmRatThich, ‘feeling’ is the first principle of the Chinese table tennis philosophy! So, here are three tips to help you develop your ‘feeling’ for the ball. 1. Loosen your grip Most players hold their bat too tight. You might not realise it but you probably do too. It’s the root of all sorts of technical problems and inefficiencies. I used to do this too, until I discovered the relaxed shakehands grip a few years ago. It totally transformed my game! A tight grip leads to tension in the wrist and forearm, which leads to playing shots with a stiff arm. It all stems from the grip. What’s the problem with having tension in your wrist and forearm, and playing with a stiff arm? You can’t develop any ‘feeling’! ‘Feeling’ is in your hands. In your fingers, even. Holding your bat too tight removes any ‘feeling’ and control you may have from your hand and forces you to play everything from your shoulder and upper arm. And there’s no ‘feeling’ for table tennis in your shoulder! This is what I wrote about recently in my “Hand Not Shoulder” blog post. Here’s a snippet… Beginners play table tennis with their shoulder, swinging their whole arm at the ball. As they improve they begin to play more with their elbows, giving them a bit more control and spin. Good players play with their hands. They learning ‘feeling’ and this is all in the hand – below the wrist. The professionals play with their fingers! So, “hand not shoulder” is correct if you want to develop ‘feeling’. But you won’t be able to do that unless you loosen your grip and go for what I like to call the relaxed shakehands grip or the limp handshake grip. Get your grip right and you’ll make it much easier to develop the elusive ‘feeling’. 2. Switch the spin The principle of ‘feeling’ in table tennis is very closely related to that of spin. In particular, your ability to control the spin on the ball. There are two elements to being a good spin player. The first is proactive and regards your ability to generate spin to the ball. The second is reactive and is your ability to deal with incoming spin. In my mind, a player with good ‘feeling’ is a master at both. They are able to deal with any spin coming at them and create any spin on that same ball. That’s no easy task! Spin is difficult to learn and reading/returning incoming spin is often the undoing of intermediate players. So what can you do the begin to master these two elements of spin ‘feeling’? I created the ‘switch the spin’ game whilst coaching Sam Priestley in 2014. It’s very simple to understand but extremely difficult to do well – unless you have great ‘feeling’. You start by doing a slow loop-to-loop rally. The focus is on heavy spin rather than hitting the ball really hard. Then one player has to chop the ball, turning the topspin rally into a backspin rally. Switching the spin. Then you do some pushes/chop at each other. Then either player can loop a backspin ball, switching the spin again. And so it continues. Topspin rally, backspin rally, topspin rally. It takes a lot of ‘feeling’ to be able to do this well. I chose Chris Doran as the image for this blog post because he has amazing ‘feeling’ and you’ll often see him in games chopping heavy topspin loops with his fast blade and Tenergy 05 rubbers. You’re not going to develop Chris Doran ‘feeling overnight. But the more you practice the easier you’ll find it. Do it for five or ten minutes every time you play and you’ll have great ‘feeling’ before too long. It wasn’t until we starting doing this fun drill in our practice that Sam really learnt how to open-up backspin balls consistently. 3. Learn to feed multiball When most players think of multiball they picture an experienced coach shooting balls down at them whilst they dash around trying to return them all. This is great. But have you ever thought about switching roles? In China, you’ll see kids as young as six or seven feeding multiball for their peers. It looks easy when you watch a professional coach doing it, but give it a go yourself and you’ll realise it requires a lot of hand ‘feeling’. I remember doing multiball feeding for the first time as an 18-year-old at Grantham Academy. I wasn’t very good at it and neither were most of the other players. I hated it. It felt like a bit of a waste of time because the player actually doing the drill would get such a terrible feed. But back then I didn’t realise that the actual act of learning how to feed the ball would improve my game! So, the mantra here is… Work on your ‘feeding’ to improve your ‘feeling’. This is something I did with Sam Priestley (in 2014) and I’m now doing it with Harrie Austin-Jones too. Not that I get them to feed me. But I just give them a box of balls and have them practice playing different shots from a drop feed, or straight out of their hand. Both of them hated it at first. It feels a bit insulting, I think. Like I’m saying they’re not good enough yet to play actual table tennis. But it’s actually one of the most beneficial things you can do to develop ‘feeling’. It teaches you how to use your hand to create spin. And it also helps with your overall timing and coordination. Give ’em a go! If you want to develop ‘feeling’ – and I don’t believe you can become an expert at table tennis without ‘feeling’ – why not have a go at these three ideas the next time you play. Focus on keeping your grip loose whatever you’re doing, whether training or playing matches. Ask someone at your club to have a go at the ‘switch the spin’ game with you. Ideally, you want to do this with someone who has better ‘feeling’ than you so that you can see what they do and learn from them. And you can always practice tip #3 on your own, at home, wherever you have a table and balls. If you do service practice already, add it into that. Or ask someone if they would like you to feed multiball for them. I very much doubt they’ll say no to that!+++1
5 Tips to Help You Thrive in the New Table Tennis Season 5 Tips to Help You Thrive in the New Table Tennis Season September 5, 2019 by Ben Larcombe The pre-season is over… The new 2019/2020 table tennis season is upon us! Many of the world’s top leagues and tournaments have already started and I’m sure, if you haven’t already, you’ll be competing again soon. A new season can mean a new environment and potentially some changes to your competitive table tennis from the year before. Perhaps you’ve moved to play for a different club, or your team has been promoted/relegated so you’ll be playing in a different division. You’ll likely be faced with new venues, new opponents and maybe even some new teammates. But there’s no need to worry! Whether you’ve spent all summer practising or have hardly picked up your bat, here are five tips to help you thrive in the new table tennis season. This post was originally written in September 2013 and has been buried in the ETT archives… but I’ve brought it back to life! 1. Set yourself some challenging (but realistic) goals Goal-setting is nothing new, and I guess it isn’t really that exciting either, but it is effective. Whatever standard of league or tournaments you’re going to be playing in this season, you should be setting some goals for yourself. These will most likely be performance and outcome goals – such as achieving a certain percentage in your division’s averages or reaching a certain stage of a competition. Back in 2013, my goals for the season ahead were… To achieve an average of 50% or higher in British League Division 1 South. To achieve an average of 90% or higher in the top division of the Central London League. I didn’t achieve either of those goals. But I wasn’t a million miles away either. Sometimes you’ll need to be flexible with your goals and readjust after a couple of weeks/months. For example, I finished the first weekend of British League on 2/8 wins (25%) but this was with very little practice over the summer and playing as #2 in the team instead of #3. Therefore, I decided to keep my goal at 50% despite the disappointing start. It was my goal of 50% that motivated me to practice and keep playing each week. Setting goals like this is quite easy. Look at what you achieved last season. Take into account how much you practised over the summer (or how much you’ll be playing this season). And then set your goals accordingly. Back in 2012/13, I finished on 46% in British League Division 1 South, so I decided to aim for 50% in 2013/14. If I’d been practising more (I got married and moved house in the summer of 2013) and expecting a bigger yearly improvement, I could have set it at 60% or even 70%. 2. Work on your table tennis self-belief We spend a lot of time working on our table tennis skills; trying to improve the power and accuracy of our shots, working on our movement and speed etc. We tend to spend much less time working on the mental side of the game – despite the fact that we all agree this is incredibly important. Self-belief is one of the common characteristics found in almost all top-level athletes. When they go into a competitive environment, they just have this feeling that they’re going to win. They can’t quite imagine any other outcome! Here’s an interesting article from The Telegraph covering some of the basics of self-belief and its effects on performance. You’re not going to win every match you play. You know this. The best athletes in the world know this. However… You should go into every match you play believing wholeheartedly that you are going to win! The reason that the higher-ranked player wins so often in table tennis is that before the game has even started the lower ranked player has looking at the ranking list (or league averages) and decided he has little chance of winning. Don’t make the same mistake! 3. Remove any unnecessary pressure you’re putting on yourself When I first moved to Grantham Academy (at 18 years of age), and started practising every day, I’d put a ton of unnecessary pressure on myself at tournaments. I’d think to myself… Everybody knows you’re at Grantham now. Everybody knows you’ve been playing every day. They’re expecting you to be much better. Don’t make a fool of yourself. You need to play at a much higher level than you did before you left. This was especially true when I would come up against players that I’d beaten closely before moving. I’d think… Now I have to beat them! If I was beating them before I started playing every day and now I lose to them, then I’ll look like a complete failure. It’ll be like all this extra training was for nothing. This is just one example of the kind of unnecessary pressure we can put on ourselves as table tennis players. If you’ve been abroad to practice in the summer (and other people know you have) then if they beat you, you’ll probably have to deal with them saying things like, “You should have stayed home all summer having BBQs in the garden like me, mate!” The thing is, thinking like that is the way of the “loser”. Always worrying about what others will think of you and what you have to lose (your reputation being the big one). Winners don’t care about trivial things like that. They focus on the match, and playing their best, and doing everything they can to win. Everything else is irrelevant. 4. Ignore potential distractions Especially when playing local league matches, there can be numerous distractions that can take our focus away from the game. A typical match night in a local league might involve; a slippery floor, not enough room, players/umpires that don’t know all the rules, foul serves, irritating behaviour from opponents, a lack of a good cup of tea and biscuits (normally provided by the home team). Don’t let these things bother you! There will have been times when you’ve watched as another player complains that he is losing because of the slippery floor or the poor lighting, and you’ve probably looked on and thought, “What a plonker!” (or words to that effect). Don’t become the plonker. Firstly, nobody likes a sore loser. If you lost the game, complaining about a load of secondary factors isn’t going to make you feel any better. Focus on the positives you can take from the game and the lessons you can learn to improve to the future. Secondly, that kind of attitude is all about excuses. Some players have so little self-belief in themselves, and are so worried about losing face, that they bring out the excuses before they’ve even hit a ball! “I haven’t picked up a bat in ages!” “My back’s been playing up a bit.” “I don’t know how you guys play on this terrible floor?” Mentally tough players are focused on their opponent (looking for weaknesses in their game) and are only concerned about their own performance (making their own shots and playing well). Keep your attention on the things that count! 5. Devise and implement a game-plan Finally, come up with a game-plan for each opponent you’re going to play – and then don’t forget to implement it! The good thing about league matches is that you normally play on just one table and get to watch all your opponents knock-up and play before you have to face them. Make the most of this. Try to identify any weaknesses in your opponent’s games and then think of some ways to exploit these. In a local league setting, I believe that very few players are actually doing this because most are too concerned about their own game/shots. By the time you arrive at the venue, you should know your own game pretty darn well! It’s your opponent’s game you should be focused on. When your teammates are playing, pay attention to how they’re winning points against certain players. You can probably do the same tricks against them. Which side are they weakest on? What’s their favourite stroke? How’s their footwork? Do they serve well and if so what’s on the serve? All of this is valuable information. Particularly when you’re serving, take a couple of seconds before throwing the ball in the air to consider… What serve am I going to do? (spin, speed, placement) What likely receive stroke will my opponent use to return it and where will they likely aim this shot? What will I probably need to do on the third ball to put myself in a position to win the point? This type of thinking is slightly more difficult when receiving (because you don’t know what type of service you’ll be facing) but it’s still possible once you can work out what serves they’re likely to use. However, we can all be using this type of thinking on our own serves. And we should! So there you have it. Five tips that will help you thrive this season in whatever league you happen to be playing in. Get $100 Off Table Tennis University (Premium) To celebrate the start of the 2019/20 table tennis season, TableTennisUniversity.com are offering $100 off Coach Tao Li’s online curriculum (offer expires at midnight on Sunday 8th September 2019). Just click the link below and the discount code will be automatically applied… https://tabletennisuniversity.com/p/premium/?product_id=920168&coupon_code=SEPTEMBER And here’s a taster of what you’ll find inside Table Tennis University! TTU comes with a 30-day money-back guarantee. If for whatever reason, you decide it isn’t for you they’ll give you a full refund!+++1
Newgy Robo-Pong Comparison – Which Table Tennis Robot Should I Buy? August 23, 2018 by Ben Larcombe Newgy Robo-Pong Comparison - Table Tennis Robots The Newgy Robo-Pong table tennis robots are currently available in four different models. The older-style 540, 1040, 1050, 2040 and 2050 robots have been replaced by the 1040+, 2040+, 2055 and 3050XL. Which one is right for you? Which one should you buy? In this article, I will complete a Newgy Robo-Pong comparison to help you to make that decision. Newgy Industries is a US company that is well-known for producing high-quality table tennis robots. Newgy have their own factory in China and all their robots are exclusive to them – they aren’t sticking their logos on other Chinese robots. You can buy from Newgy robots from Megaspin and Amazon! This post was updated in August 2019! The Best Newgy Robo-Pong Robot There are four Newgy Robo-Pong robots currently on sale (they seem to update their models quite regularly) and they vary significantly in price and features. Newgy Robo-Pong 1040+ = $499 Newgy Robo-Pong 2040+ = $799 Newgy Robo-Pong 2055 = $999 Newgy Robo-Pong 3050XL = $1,999 The 1040+ and 2040+ are both “old-style” analogue table tennis robots. The 2055 is a newer digital version of the 2040+. It can remember drills and be connected to a computer. The 3050XL is the super fancy 2018 model that can be linked via Bluetooth to the Newgy app. The 1040+ is a tabletop robot. The other three attach to the end of the table and are able to recycle the balls using the built-in net. Which Newgy Robot Should I Buy? I believe the answer to this question comes down to whether you are simply looking for a “cheap” robot or a “good” robot. If you want a cheap robot, I would recommend the Robo-Pong 1040+. If you’re looking for a “proper” robot, I would suggest the Robo-Pong 2055. Unfortunately, the Robo-Pong 3050XL has really bad reviews online, so I would steer clear of this one! I will now quickly run through my thoughts on all four Newgy Robo-Pong robots. Newgy Robo-Pong 1040+ The Robo-Pong 1040+ is a fairly basic robot but it can do everything you would want from a simple machine. Newgy Robo-Pong 1040+ Robot It doesn’t recycle balls, and this might be a deal-breaker for some. But as far as table-top robots go, this one can hold over 200 balls – so you don’t have to spend all your time collecting and refilling the robot. The best feature of the Robo Pong 1040+ is its price. It’s very reasonably priced at $499. And you know it’ll be a decent robot as Newgy have been selling these for decades! Buy a Robo-Pong 1040+ for… $499 from Megaspin.net $499 from Amazon.com Newgy Robo-Pong 2040+ The Robo-Pong 2040+ robot is able to recycle balls like a “proper” robot but it is still very basic in features. It’s an old-school analogue table tennis robot. The kind I used to use 20 years ago as a kid. Newgy Robo-Pong 2040+ Robot In fact, I think it might be exactly the same robot they had at my club 20 years ago! The Robo-Pong 2040+ is identical to the Robo-Pong 1040+ in features, so you’re basically paying an extra $300 just to get the ball net and ball recycling! This doesn’t really make any sense to me. If you’re interested in the Robo-Pong 2040+ you really should spend an extra $200 and get the 2055 model instead. You could buy a Robo-Pong 2040+ for… $799 from Megaspin.net $911.10 from Amazon.com But you should probably buy a Robo-Pong 2055 instead! Newgy Robo-Pong 2055 The Robo-Pong 2055 is the updated version of the 2050+ and it’s exactly what you would expect from a $1,000 table tennis robot. A really solid robot that is able to do practically everything. It has a built-in memory that can save your favourite exercises/drills. It has the net to recycle balls. And it can give you random drills. The Robo-Pong 2055 is much more advanced than the Robo-Pong 2040+ and really doesn’t cost that much more. That’s why I like the Robo-Pong 2050 – $999 is actually very good value! Buy a Robo-Pong 2055 for… $999 from Megaspin.net $999 from Amazon.com Newgy Robo-Pong 3050XL The Robo-Pong 3050XL sounds incredible. It was designed to be as close to playing with an actual human opponent as possible. It’s got all the top-of-the-range features you would expect; two throw wheels, drills, advanced placement options, it can serve at you, it’s controlled via the Newgy app you download onto your phone/tablet, and it looks nicer than the other Newgy models. The only problem is… the customer reviews are all awful! When you’re spending $2,000 on a table tennis robot you expect all of the reviews to be glowing. But they aren’t. From the sounds of it, the 3050XL is too clever for its own good. The technology can end up having a mind of its own, sending balls straight into the net, or randomly all over the place. And once it starts going funny, it’s not easy to fix! You could buy a Robo-Pong 3050XL for… $1,999 from Megaspin.net £1,599 from Amazon.co.uk Or on second thoughts. Maybe don’t! If you’re thinking about spending $2,000 on a table tennis robot you’d be much better off buying a Butterfly Amicus Prime. Buy a Butterfly Amicus Prime for… $2,179 from Megaspin.net Conclusion So there you have it. If you want to buy a Newgy Robo-Pong table tennis robot I would recommend either the 1040+ or the 2055. It really depends on your budget. If you are looking to save money, go for the Robo-Pong 1040+. If you want a modern, advanced robot at a great price, go for the Robo-Pong 2055. And if you want a top-of-the-range table tennis robot, you should avoid Newgy altogether and buy a Butterfly Amicus Prime instead! You might also be interested in reading my popular article The Best Table Tennis Robots. And don’t forget to check out all of my other Table Tennis Robot Reviews as well.+++1
Pretend You’re a Goalkeeper to Correct Your Table Tennis Stance October 5, 2017 by Ben Larcombe pretend you're a goalkeeper Recently, I’ve been coaching table tennis to a number of complete beginners and, as you’d expect, that has involved me having to hammer home all of the basics; grip, stance, footwork, etc. Stance, in particular, is always a battle. New players tend to like to stand at the table just as if they were waiting for a bus! I’ve already got a popular article all about the correct stance but for this week’s Thursday afternoon blog post I’ve decided to share a specific coaching aid that I use to help players remember it. “Pretend you’re a goalkeeper…” It’s the football/soccer goalkeeper analogy. When I see a table tennis player with an unhelpful stance/ready position often all I need to say is… Pretend you’re a goalkeeper ready to receive a penalty. …and, provided the player has at least some simple knowledge of football, they tend to immediately get into a much better stance for table tennis. goalkeeper penalty stance You’d be surprised how similar the two stances are! The following is taken from Soccer Coach Weekly… The ready position is the position that goalkeepers need to adopt as they prepare to stop a shot… Feet shoulder width apart. Knees slightly bent. Weight on the balls of the feet. Hands at waist height. Elbows tucked in. Shoulders forward (nose over toes). Balanced. Head steady, eyes on the ball. And here’s a great explanation from KeeperStop… The ready position is the action taken to load the muscles and to establish a strong, balanced, and agile base just before a shot. This is done by having your feet shoulder width apart, weight on the balls of your feet, slight bend in the knees and back, hands positioned out in front comfortably in the hip area. This stance will help a goalkeeper maintain proper balance and keep their weight forward. The shape of the keeper will appear concave. Replace the word “goalkeeper” with “table tennis player” and that could be straight out of a table tennis coaching manual! Why it works The beauty of the goalkeeper coaching analogy is just how much technical information can be conveyed using one simple image. Nobody, when standing in goal ready to receive a penalty, would choose to stand up completely straight, or have their feet really close together, or have their weight on their heels. No, you’d want to have a wide base, and get down a little lower, and have your weight on the balls of your feet – ready to spring left or right. I’ve also found that a traditional way of explaining the table tennis stance or ready position (breaking it down body part by body part) can end up creating more issues than it solves. For example, as I mentioned at the start of the post, lots of new table tennis players like to try and play standing bolt upright. A bit like this… ping pong standing bolt upright In the past, I might have said one of the following to them… “You’re very tall. See if you can get down a little lower.” “At the moment you’re standing up very straight. Try bending your knees.” “Think about bringing your head down a bit closer to the level of the ball.” In my head, that little coaching nugget will immediately have them standing properly. But, in reality, they often end up “sitting down” instead, with their weight on their heels, like this guy… table tennis player sitting downThat’s an easy fix in a one-to-one coaching session, but in a large group of 20+ players, when I can spend less than a minute watching a player before I need to move on, it just isn’t possible to go around sorting out all of these little misunderstandings! It’s even more tricky when the player thinks they are doing what you want and are consciously making sure their knees stay bent – by sitting down. Stop sitting down! While we’re on the subject… “sitting down” with your weight on your heels is a very common stance error. After all, this guy in the photo clearly isn’t a beginner but he’s making a pretty fundamental mistake here that is going to hinder his ability to stay balanced, move quickly, and even get decent power into his strokes. The goalkeeper analogy can very quickly correct the problem. All I need to say is… Coach: Would you stand like that if you were a goalkeeper ready to receive a penalty? Player: Nope. Coach: How would you stand instead? Player: Like this. Coach: Ok, great. Do that from now on. And that’s the same conversation I would have with the two office guys standing bolt upright. It doesn’t really matter what the specific error is because the goalkeeper analogy is all about what you SHOULD be doing, rather than what you SHOULDN’T be doing. And it’s easy to remember. Once it’s been explained you only need to remember one word… goalkeeper. How is your stance? Stance is one of those fundamental areas of table tennis that lots of players assume they have mastered, when in fact they still have some work to do. It might not be until you see a photo or video of yourself playing that you realise your stance isn’t quite right. I actually wrote an article about that very phenomenon a few years back called Are You Doing What You Think You’re Doing? That is definitely worth a read if you’ve got a couple of minutes to spare. If you have any comments you’d like to add to this blog post, please leave them below. I’ll be back next Thursday with another table tennis coaching article on a topic of my choosing.+++1
Should the Sacramento Kings trade Bogdan Bogdanovic before deadline? by Matthew Hallett2 hours ago Follow @mervsports78 TWEET SHARE x COMMENT The Sacramento Kings have not had the season they hoped for, should they be looking to trade Bogdan Bogdanovic? The 2019-20 season has not gone according to plan for the Sacramento Kings. They are 13th in the Western Conference with a 16-29 record. They have started removing pieces of the team to gain cap flexibility for next season. Trevor Ariza, who was in the first of a two-year deal, was traded with Wenyen Gabriel and Caleb Swanigan to the Portland Trail Blazers for Kent Bazemore and Anthony Tolliver, both of who are on expiring contracts. This has to be the start of next season’s planning. These Kings have two of their young core coming off their rookie deals in the next two years. Bogdan Bogdanovic is a free agent next season and De’Aaron Fox is a free agent the season after. Thanks to the Harrison Barnes contract, the Kings’ hands are a little tied when it comes to cap space. Does this then bring us to the question of should the Kings trade Bogdanovic? The third-year guard has played in 35 games this season, 34 off the bench. He started the last game in what can only be described as a surprise move. The Kings benched Buddy Hield for the start of the Chicago Bulls game, incidentally, a game Sacramento won. Bogdan Bogdanovic  @LeaderOfHorde Dunk contest 2020 in Chicago, we taking over! https://twitter.com/SacramentoKings/status/1185662858496901120 … Sacramento Kings  @SacramentoKings Hey @NBA2K Time to get @leaderofhorde's dunk rating up   Embedded video 2,190 1:50 PM - Oct 19, 2019 Twitter Ads info and privacy 119 people are talking about this This had a big impact on the result of the game, not just the new Kings’ starting line up. Hield is the closest thing to a star the Kings have. Before the Bulls game, Hield had five games out of six where he has shot below 30 percent from deep. This is the second stretch of the season where he has shot poorly, the first stretch was during November when he went seven games out of nine where he shot less than 30 percent. He was not benched then when the season could be saved so there could be an ulterior motive this time. With the trade deadline approaching fast, the Kings could be showcasing the talent of Bogdanovic to get something back from him. As mentioned earlier, he’s off his contract at the end of the season. The problem for the Kings is Bogdanovic is an accomplished shooting guard. He is averaging 13.2 points, 3.5 assists, 3.1 rebounds and 1.0 steals in just 29.0 minutes per game. He is also playing the sixth man role on an unsuccessful team, whereas another franchise might view him as a missing piece. He is going to be offered good money and potentially a starting role with more successful teams. With the free agency class being fairly thin on talent, Bogdanovic is going to be a fairly hot commodity several teams would love to bring in. He will know there is no way that he is replacing Hield in the starting line up unless it comes via injury or wildly unexpected trade. Hield is also in the first year of his four year, $94 million contract. The Kings are not going to be able to offer Bogdanovic enough money to stay as a reserve. NEXT: NBA's 20 most promising young duos The Kings need to trade Bogdanovic to get some assets back. Otherwise, they run the real risk of losing him for nothing.+++1
Trae Young’s NBA All-Star selection not as rare as it might seem by Phil Watson1 day ago Follow @PhilWatsonFS TWEET SHARE x COMMENT Trae Young was selected to start the 2020 All-Star Game, set for Feb. 16 in Chicago, even though his team, the Atlanta Hawks, is last in the East. Three players were chosen to make their NBA All-Star Game debuts as starters next month. Luka Doncic of the Dallas Mavericks is a legitimate MVP contender, while Pascal Siakam has helped the Toronto Raptors to unexpected success after the defending champions lost superstar Kawhi Leonard in the offseason. Then there is the case of Atlanta Hawks point guard Trae Young. Young was the only All-Star starter selected from a team with a losing record … and, man, do the Hawks ever have a losing record. At the time of Young’s selection, Atlanta was just 11-34, a .244 winning percentage. MORE FROM HOOPS HABIT Utah Jazz: Gobert and Mitchell Each Deserve All-Star Nods Should the Sacramento Kings trade Bogdan Bogdanovic before deadline? Utah Jazz: Rudy Gobert’s All-Star case is clear as day Dallas Mavericks: Willie Cauley-Stein will be a good addition Derrick Rose starting a good thing for the Detroit Pistons The NBA All-Star Game is thought to be reserved for the game’s best players from the Association’s best teams, but Young’s selection as a starter is not as rare as it might seem at first glance. Since selection of starters was turned over to the fans for the 1975 NBA All-Star Game, there have been 83 starters selected from teams with losing records at the All-Star break (some players more than once). Young will be No. 83 on that list; Atlanta has 10 games remaining before the break, so their absolute best-case scenario would to have a 21-34 record … if, you know, they win 10 in a row after winning 11 of their first 46. To be clear, this is not to imply Young is an undeserving pick. He’s shown a lot of growth as a player this season for a Hawks team that has been without John Collins for 25 games due to a suspension and has had sixth man Jabari Parker for just one game and 15 minutes since Dec. 23 because of a shoulder impingement. The team regularly starts two rookies in Cam Reddish and De’Andre Hunter, two second-year players in Young and Kevin Huerter, while Collins is the old man of the starting unit as a third-year guy. So this is a team that will take lumps during the learning process. In just more than four more minutes per game this season, Young has hiked his scoring average by a 10 points per game (to be fair, he’s taking 5.3 more shots per game) and is getting 3.4 more foul shot attempts a night than he did as a rookie. His per game numbers are eye-popping: 29.1 points, 8.8 assists, 4.6 rebounds and 1.2 steals in 35.1 minutes per game, shooting .445/.370/.839 (up from .418/.324/.829 as a rookie). The downside? He’s averaging almost a full turnover more per game (4.7 as opposed to 3.8 last season) and his defense will never remind anyone of Tony Allen (Tim Allen, perhaps … Tony Allen? Not so much). Fans chose the starters from 1975-2016. Since the 2017 NBA All-Star Game, fans have accounted for 50 percent of the formula for selecting starters, with media and player voting each weighted at 25 percent. Young is the fifth starter in those four years to be chosen from a losing team. The others were Anthony Davis from the New Orleans Pelicans in 2019 and a trio of starters in 2017: Davis, along with Milwaukee Bucks star Giannis Antetokounmpo and Jimmy Butler, then with the Chicago Bulls. But starters being tabbed from losing teams isn’t rare. This is the 44th NBA All-Star Game since fan voting was instituted (every year since 1975 with the exception of the lockout season in 1999) and with 78 starters from losing clubs, that’s an average of nearly two per year (1.77 to be precise). Here’s the one that will surprise: There have only been six NBA All-Star Games since 1975 in which every voted-in starter played for a team that had a winning record at the break. Six times in 44 years. Those years were 1989, 1997, 2000, 2001, 2009 and 2018. Young is already guaranteed not to be from the worst-ever team to have an NBA All-Star Game starter. The absolute worst the Hawks could be at the break is 11-45, a winning percentage of .196); two players — Dwyane Wade of the 2007-08 Miami Heat and Carmelo Anthony of the 2014-15 New York Knicks — are below that mark. Wade’s Miami club limped into the break in 2008 at 9-43, a .173 winning percentage; Anthony’s Knicks were 10-43, just a half-game better with a winning percentage of .189. Young could fall below the next two names on the list. Kobe Bryant of the Los Angeles Lakers was elected in his final season, 2015-16, with his team 11-44 (.200) at the break. Tracy McGrady of the Orlando Magic was chosen in 2004 as his team was 13-41 (.241). At Atlanta’s current pace, Young would end up being fifth or sixth on the list. Bryant’s 2014-15 Lakers got to the break at 13-40, a .245 winning percentage). Of the 83 players elected from losing teams, only 25 came from teams that were really losing (teams with a winning percentage of worse than .400) and only one of those teams are among the five losing squads to have not just one, but two, NBA All-Star Game starters. That’s a rare feat. The worst of the worst from that bunch was, as coincidence would have it, the Atlanta Hawks. Specifically, the 1980-81 Atlanta Hawks, who hobbled into the All-Star break with a 19-34 (.358) record, but had both Dan Roundfield and Eddie Johnson selected as starters. The rest of that dubious bunch of teams and players: 1975-76 Milwaukee Bucks (Bob Dandridge and Brian Winters), 20-29 (.408) 2005-06 Houston Rockets (Yao Ming and Tracy McGrady), 22-31 (.415) 2012-13 Los Angeles Lakers (Kobe Bryant and Dwight Howard), 25-29 (.463) 1993-94 New Jersey Nets (Derrick Coleman and Kenny Anderson), 22-24 (.478) MORE NBA: 2020s to be defined by players rather than teams For the most part, however, the players on this particular list proved themselves with more successful clubs either before or after their selections that landed them here. Heck, a whopping 27 of these players are now in the Hall of Fame, with Bryant all put a lock to join them later this year. Here is a full breakdown by team of the selections: Atlanta Hawks, 3 (Eddie Johnson 1981; Dan Roundfield 1981; Trae Young 2020) Boston Celtics, 1 (Dave Cowens 1978) Chicago Bulls, 7 (Norm Van Lier 1977; Artis Gilmore 1982; Michael Jordan 1985, 1986, 1987; Scottie Pippen 1995; Jimmy Butler 2017) Cleveland Cavaliers, 1 (Kyrie Irving 2014) Dallas Mavericks, 1 (Jason Kidd 1996) Denver Nuggets, 2 (Alex English 1983, 1984) Detroit Pistons, 4 (Isiah Thomas 1982, 1983; Grant Hill 1995, 1998) Golden State Warriors, 2 (Rick Barry 1978; Latrell Sprewell 1995) Houston Rockets, 6 (Moses Malone 1980; Hakeem Olajuwon 1990; Steve Francis 2002; Tracy McGrady 2006; Yao Ming 2006, 2011) Los Angeles Lakers, 6 (Gail Goodrich 1975; Kobe Bryant 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016; Dwight Howard 2013) Miami Heat, 2 (Dwyane Wade 2008, 2010) Milwaukee Bucks, 5 (Kareem Abdul-Jabbar 1975; Bob Dandridge 1976; Brian Winters 1976; Marques Johnson 1979; Giannis Antetokounmpo 2017) Minnesota Timberwolves, 2 (Kevin Garnett 2007; Kevin Love 2014) New Jersey Nets, 4 (Kenny Anderson 1994; Derrick Coleman 1994; Vince Carter 2005; Jason Kidd 2008) New Orleans Pelicans, 2 (Anthony Davis 2017, 2019) New York Knicks, 7 (Walt Frazier 1976; Bob McAdoo 1977; Patrick Ewing 1991; Carmelo Anthony 2012, 2014, 2015, 2016) Orlando Magic, 3 (Anfernee Hardaway 1998; Tracy McGrady 2003, 2004) Philadelphia 76ers, 5 (Charles Barkley 1992; Allen Iverson 2004, 2005, 2006, 2010) Phoenix Suns, 2 (Paul Westphal 1977; Charles Barkley 1996) Kansas City/Sacramento Kings, 3 (Tiny Archibald 1975, 1976; Mitch Richmond 1994) San Antonio Spurs, 2 (George Gervin 1984; Alvin Robertson 1987) San Diego Clippers, 1 (World B. Free 1980) Seattle SuperSonics, 2 (Spencer Haywood 1975; Paul Westphal 1981) Toronto Raptors, 2 (Vince Carter 2003, 2004) New Orleans/Utah Jazz, 6 (Pete Maravich 1977, 1979; Adrian Dantley 1980, 1981, 1982, 1985) Washington Bullets, 1 (Moses Malone 1988) NEXT: Ranking the NBA's best mascots of all-time The 2020 NBA All-Star Game will be played Feb. 16 at United Center in Chicago, the first time for the 25-year-old arena to host the mid-winter classic. The last time the game was held in Chicago was at old Chicago Stadium in 1988. It was also played at that venue in 1973.+++1
NBA Trade Grades: Oklahoma City Thunder pick up rookie Isaiah Roby by Phil Watson1 day ago Follow @PhilWatsonFS TWEET SHARE x COMMENT NEXT1 of 3PREV POST Use your ← → (arrows) to browse NBA Trade Grades Oklahoma City Thunder Isaiah Roby It’s not a blockbuster, but the Oklahoma City Thunder got some financial relief on Friday when they reportedly acquired Isaiah Roby from the Dallas Mavericks. The Dallas Mavericks, in what is a precursor for another move, traded rookie forward Isaiah Roby to the Oklahoma City Thunder in exchange for center Justin Patton. MORE FROM HOOPS HABIT Utah Jazz: Gobert and Mitchell Each Deserve All-Star Nods Should the Sacramento Kings trade Bogdan Bogdanovic before deadline? Utah Jazz: Rudy Gobert’s All-Star case is clear as day Dallas Mavericks: Willie Cauley-Stein will be a good addition Trae Young’s NBA All-Star selection not as rare as it might seem Roby was taken by the Detroit Pistons with the 45th overall pick last June and was sent to the Mavericks in a trade six days later along with the Utah Jazz 2020 second-round pick and the Portland Trail Blazers 2021 second-round pick in exchange for the rights to Lithuanian wing Deividas Sirvydis, who was chosen 37th overall by Dallas. Patton is in his third NBA season and Dallas will be his fifth organization since he was selected 16th overall by the Chicago Bulls in the 2017 NBA Draft. Slowed by a troublesome left foot that cost him most of his first two years in the NBA, Patton has spent most of this season with the Thunder’s G League affiliate, the Oklahoma City Blue. Shams Charania of The Athletic was first to report the deal. Shams Charania  @ShamsCharania Dallas is trading forward Isaiah Roby to Oklahoma City for Justin Patton and cash consideration, league sources tell @TheAthleticNBA @Stadium. 4,249 1:58 PM - Jan 24, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 1,250 people are talking about this Tim Cato, who covers the Mavericks for The Athletic, reported Dallas doesn’t plan on retaining Patton. Instead the club is clearing roster space, either to sign a free agent to provide frontcourt depth after Dwight Powell went down with a ruptured Achilles on Tuesday or to make a trade in which the Mavericks will be taking in more players than they are sending out. Tim Cato  @tim_cato it doesn't sound like Dallas is gonna keep Patton, per source. this is a roster clearing move. https://twitter.com/shamscharania/status/1220828270259777538 … Shams Charania  @ShamsCharania Dallas is trading forward Isaiah Roby to Oklahoma City for Justin Patton and cash consideration, league sources tell @TheAthleticNBA @Stadium. 519 2:04 PM - Jan 24, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 151 people are talking about this Based on what was reported later Friday evening by ESPN’s Adrian Wojnarowski, this will indeed be the case. Wojnarowski is reporting the Mavericks are finalizing a deal to get center Willie Cauley-Stein from the Golden State Warriors. Adrian Wojnarowski  @wojespn Golden State is finalizing a deal to trade C Willie Cauley-Stein to Dallas, league sources tell ESPN. 23.3K 3:10 PM - Jan 24, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 5,454 people are talking about this It’s the second trade in the NBA this week, after the Trail Blazers and Sacramento Kings swapped role players Kent Bazemore and Anthony Tolliver for Trevor Ariza and a couple of deep roster big men in Wenyen Gabriel and Caleb Swanigan. The trade was the fourth since the regular season opened in October, with the Feb. 6 trade deadline now less than two weeks away. Here’s how the trade grades out.+++1
Why not Jae Crowder as a Los Angeles Lakers deadline target? by Daniel Lubofsky1 day ago Follow @D_Lubofsky TWEET SHARE x COMMENT Jae Crowder isn’t the Memphis Grizzlies forward they want, but he could be what the Los Angeles Lakers need to fill one of their few remaining holes. In a season ripe with championship expectations, the Los Angeles Lakers have managed to look better than advertised all year long. Their 36-9 record is best in the West with ratings that are in the top five on both sides of the ball. LeBron James and Anthony Davis will share the court as starters in the upcoming All-Star Game and the cast of questionable role players has answered the bell so far. Despite their grouping among the few teams with a realistic shot at the title, this L.A. team is still noticeably flawed in ways that could keep the championship out of reach. One look at the Lakers’ depth chart shows the absence of legitimate wing depth behind LeBron James. They’ve been getting by with a committee of Danny Green and Kentavious Caldwell-Pope at the 3 spot at times, both of whom bring a reputable defensive acumen and legitimate 3-point shooting. Neither, however, provides the strength necessary to make up for frames that don’t reach above 6’6”. Kyle Kuzma is better suited down a position with defense that comes and goes. At 34 years old, Jared Dudley isn’t built to handle a role that affords consistent playing time. A postseason matchup with the LA Clippers seems inevitable, but the Lakers have had little to no answers for the wing duo of Kawhi Leonard and Paul George en route to an 0-2 record. MORE FROM HOOPS HABIT Utah Jazz: Gobert and Mitchell Each Deserve All-Star Nods Should the Sacramento Kings trade Bogdan Bogdanovic before deadline? Utah Jazz: Rudy Gobert’s All-Star case is clear as day Dallas Mavericks: Willie Cauley-Stein will be a good addition Trae Young’s NBA All-Star selection not as rare as it might seem Thinking down the line toward possibly June, Giannis Antetokounmpo and the Milwaukee Bucks have already given the Lakers issues. L.A. is in desperate need of a wing with legitimate size; the type who, if not shut down the stars who will stand in their way of a title, can at least make them work for every bucket. It’s why they’ve been linked to Andre Iguodala all season long, a sizeable wing who brings championship savvy and a resume of irritating the elites of the league. But if the Memphis Grizzlies‘ asking price seems too high for the former Finals MVP, the Lakers don’t need to look very far to find an alternative to a player in high demand across the league. Jae Crowder isn’t the player he once was as a valued 3-and-D member of the Boston Celtics. His 3-point shot has cratered to the second-worst mark of his career — 29.5 percent — while his individual defensive rating is the worst it’s ever been. Who he still is, however, is a burly 235-pounder who can rotate between both forward spots with a passionate desire to make the lives of his opponents uncomfortable. The seventh-year veteran has made his career by taking on the most difficult of defensive challenges on a nightly basis. There’s a reason he was the one tasked with slowing down even the likes of LeBron during his battles with the Cleveland Cavaliers as a member of the Celtics. You feel his physicality over the course of a seven-game series. For a player who once shot 39.8 percent from beyond the arc, the absence of 3-point efficiency since then has been a bit alarming. Crowder is shooting just 28.1 percent on catch-and-shoot looks from downtown this season, a staple of any complementary piece alongside James. Across 53 games with James in Cleveland back in 2017-18, that number was at a much more respectable 35.0 percent on 3.1 attempts per game. Not even that would be an ideal mark today, but the Lakers currently rank fifth in the catch-and-shoot department from downtown this season at 38.5 percent, likely on account of the attention LeBron and AD command. Who’s to say Crowder couldn’t benefit in the same way Green and KCP have with some of the best looks he’s ever gotten? The trick for L.A. is to get him out of Memphis, where he’s started 41 games for a Grizzlies team amid an unexpectedly competitive season that has in the eighth spot by a half-game. Crowder is in the final year of a deal paying him only $7.8 million, which makes a deal far more easier for the Lakers to pull off.+++1
Derrick Rose starting a good thing for the Detroit Pistons by Matthew Hallett1 day ago Follow @mervsports78 TWEET SHARE x COMMENT Since inserting Derrick Rose into the starting lineup, the Detroit Pistons have almost been a different team. Derrick Rose started the 2019-20 season on a minutes restriction. As a result, he came off the bench  for most of the first half of the season for the Detroit Pistons. This is despite being one of the most effective players on the roster. In his 34 games off the bench, Rose has averaged 18.3 points, 5.9 assists, 2.4 rebounds and 0.8 steals in 26 minutes per game. He has shot the ball at 49.4/33.0/87.9, which is quite respectable. His plus/minus over these games is a surprising minus-0.4. MORE FROM HOOPS HABIT Utah Jazz: Gobert and Mitchell Each Deserve All-Star Nods Should the Sacramento Kings trade Bogdan Bogdanovic before deadline? Utah Jazz: Rudy Gobert’s All-Star case is clear as day Dallas Mavericks: Willie Cauley-Stein will be a good addition Trae Young’s NBA All-Star selection not as rare as it might seem Rose has now started six games, five in a row. He is averaging 20.0 points, 6.8 assists, 3.3 rebounds and 1.0 steals in 29 minutes per game. His slash line over these six games is 51.0/13.3/78.8. Interestingly, playing with the starters means his turnovers have dropped from 2.7 to 1.7 per game. However, one of the games that Rose started was back in November where he came back in to the team after a four-game layoff and then missed the game afterwards. To say this game was not up to standard is an understatement. He had six points, five assists and three rebounds. Taking this game out of his starting numbers makes a massive difference. In this stint as a starter Rose’s numbers take a leap upwards. He is averaging 24.0 points, 8.2 assists, 4.0 rebounds and 1.2 steals in 34.6 minutes per game. Interestingly his slash line is exactly the same without the November game. His plus/minus as a starter is plus-2.6 per game. Detroit Pistons  @DetroitPistons D-Rose and Dre on an off-the-glass oop? You know that's our entry for the @BudweiserUSA #6PackPlays of the Week Embedded video 220 6:22 PM - Jan 23, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 38 people are talking about this He is at his creative best, getting to the rim and the mid-range. Playing with the starters allows Rose to get to his spots and also with the better players fresh, they are hitting more shots, which helps his assist numbers. Rose is still struggling from deep, which should normalize to his career average of 30.5 percent. However, what is more important is the Pistons are 3-2 in the time that Rose has started. They did welcome back Reggie Jackson for the last two games, but center Andre Drummond did not play in the 22-point victory over the Sacramento Kings, nor the 13-point loss to the Memphis Grizzlies. Now that Jackson is back, coach Dwane Casey has some decisions to make. Rose in the starting line up is effective, as is Jackson. Rose is most effective with ball in hand, but the Pistons have invested in heavily in Jackson as their point guard. MORE PISTONS: Best trade partners for Drummond Jackson has a greater ability to play off ball than Rose. When he played for the Oklahoma City Thunder, he played the majority of his time off-ball. In that time he was assisted on 64.6 percent of his 3-point attempts. Detroit Pistons  @DetroitPistons When one guy scores 22 in his return ... And another guy has his 10th straight game scoring 20 or more ... And ANOTHER guy leads everybody with 23 off the bench ... You make them all the Player of the Game presented by @Jeep. View image on TwitterView image on TwitterView image on Twitter 590 7:06 PM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 111 people are talking about this Rose demands respect from opposition defenses; his ability to penetrate and create space for himself as well as others needs to be exploited as a starter. If he is able to build a platform with the rest of the starters, the bench can sustain rather play catch-up. Thanks to the way the season has gone, the Detroit Pistons have been shopping Drummond for trade. Since having Rose in the starting lineup, the Pistons have either won every game or had a competitive loss. NEXT: Best player-coach duos for each NBA team's history While five games is a small sample size, the Pistons are still ninth in the Eastern conference, only 2½ behind the Brooklyn Nets and eighth place. There is still the possibility of making the playoffs this season; with Rose starting maybe they should try. They might be able to keep Drummond in free agency as a result, if he indeed opts out.+++1
Zion Williamson’s debut a lesson in patience by Daniel Lubofsky2 days ago Follow @D_Lubofsky TWEET SHARE x COMMENT The New Orleans Pelicans want every bit of Zion Williamson now, but they also understand how to set him and the franchise up for success in the future. The decision to pull Zion Williamson with 5:23 left in the fourth quarter of his NBA debut was a logical move by coach Alvin Gentry that subsequently put fans in a frustrating bind of emotions. The No. 1 overall pick in last June’s draft — and the supposed savior of the New Orleans Pelicans franchise — was setting the San Antonio Spurs ablaze with 17 straight points in the final frame, including four 3-pointers. He’s a 19-year-old kid who was making the Smoothie King Center his own after a lifeless first 36 minutes of action that included nearly as many turnovers (4) as points (5). Sitting him does not only a disservice to the fans both in the arena and watching on television who had salivated for years for this moment, but also to a team in need of every win — even in mid-January — to keep their playoff hopes from slipping. ESPN Stats & Info  @ESPNStatsInfo Zion Williamson scored 17 straight points for the Pelicans in a span of 3:29 in the 4th quarter. It's tied for the most points in a quarter in a player's 1st career game over the last 20 seasons. View image on Twitter 2,249 8:54 PM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 571 people are talking about this Then again, this was the same youngster who had missed more than three months of his rookie season after surgery the day before the season opener to repair a torn meniscus. It was a call surprisingly not made by Gentry but instead from the medical staff, according to The Athletic’s William Guillory (subscription required), who had come to understand Zion’s unique body better than most since he was drafted. MORE FROM HOOPS HABIT Utah Jazz: Gobert and Mitchell Each Deserve All-Star Nods Should the Sacramento Kings trade Bogdan Bogdanovic before deadline? Utah Jazz: Rudy Gobert’s All-Star case is clear as day Dallas Mavericks: Willie Cauley-Stein will be a good addition Trae Young’s NBA All-Star selection not as rare as it might seem There is no precedent for how the Pelicans are choosing to handle their prized top pick because nobody in league history has faced the same circumstances as Williamson. What other NBA player has rivaled the physical stature of Zion at 6’6” and 284 pounds with a vertical leap bordering on mythical? How many athletes across any sport have been tasked with restructuring the simplest of physical movements? If there are previous examples, they can be accounted for with one hand, affording the organization an absence of expectations to follow the footsteps that came before them but also the pressure to create an effective plan of their own. MORE PELICANS: Zion doesn't mean playoffs for New Orleans For as good as New Orleans has looked in recent weeks and the potential they have with one of the league’s softest remaining schedules, a 2020 playoff berth isn’t the endgame, not with this talented a young core that includes three top-two picks. NBA  @NBA Zion Williamson's (22 PTS, 4-4 3PM) back-to-back triples and free throw capped his 17 straight PTS for the @PelicansNBA!  : ESPN Embedded video 7,510 8:55 PM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 1,551 people are talking about this Its sights are set on a championship. However realistic that pursuit is, it becomes significantly less likely without the full-on efforts of a player with as high a ceiling as Zion. To best serve that goal requires an extremely detailed plan of conservation, load management if you will, for Zion Williamson as he eases his way into the all-encompassing life of an NBA player, even if he’s deemed healthy enough to play.+++1
Wes Welker back at Super Bowl seeking first ring, this time as a coach play 3:00 AM PT Mike Reiss ESPN Staff Writer Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print FOXBOROUGH, Mass. -- Quick-hit thoughts around the New England Patriots and NFL: 1. Welker gets another chance for first Super Bowl ring: When he played for the Patriots from 2007 through 2012, receiver Wes Welker had two chances to win the Super Bowl escape his grasp. He also lost a Super Bowl with the Broncos. Welker is back this year with an opportunity to win his first ring, this time as the San Francisco 49ers' wide receivers coach, and his work hasn't been overlooked. "What he's doing with those young guys, it's amazing," 49ers receiver Emmanuel Sanders said. "The way that he's got Deebo Samuel playing; Deebo was already a player, but you need a coach that can pull the greatness out of them."Super Bowl LIV Coverage What you need to know: • First look at 49ers-Chiefs » • Reid, Shanahan legacy game » • Full playoff bracket, more » • Super Bowl LIV coverage » More NFL coverage » Samuel, a second-round draft choice out of South Carolina, played in 15 regular-season games (11 starts) and finished with 57 receptions for 802 yards and three touchdowns. He added 14 rushes for 159 yards and three touchdowns. While the 49ers have relied more on the running game in the playoffs, Samuel has done his part alongside fellow receivers Sanders, Kendrick Bourne and Richie James with relentless blocking that reflects an aggressive mindset, mirroring Welker's work ethic. Sanders, who played alongside Welker in 2014 with the Broncos, said he has enjoyed being back in the receivers' meeting room with him. "Every now and then, he'll pull out some of his old clips to show the young guys, 'Look, I might be saying this, but I've done this before, too,'" Sanders said. That is precisely what 49ers coach Kyle Shanahan was hoping would be the case when he hired Welker in February, as there was an opening for a receivers coach with Mike LaFleur promoted to passing-game coordinator. Shanahan likes to hire former players, but has explained that there is a challenge in finding those who are also prepared from a coaching standpoint. Wes Welker played for the Patriots from 2007-2012. Evan Habeeb/USA TODAY Sports In Welker, Shanahan took note that he spent the 2017 and 2018 seasons working as an entry-level quality-control assistant on Bill O'Brien's Texans staff, which showed him how serious Welker was about the profession. It also didn't hurt that Shanahan had long admired Welker, going back to when the 49ers coach was playing receiver at the University of Texas and Welker was catching everything at Texas Tech. Not surprisingly, one of Welker's primary messages to 49ers receivers is one that is deeply personal to him based on his own career path -- from undrafted free agent and practice-squad player to trusted target who totaled 903 catches for 9,924 yards and 50 touchdowns. "Wes always tells the young guys, 'The moment you feel like you make it in this league, that's when you're on your way out,'" Sanders said. 2. Quarterback trade revisited: Jimmy Garoppolo's presence in Super Bowl LIV has reignited media-based discussion on the Patriots' surprising decision to trade him to the 49ers in October 2017, with some going as far as to say it was a mistake. Others say the Patriots shouldn't regret the decision as much as the limited return (a second-round pick). Here's the way I see it: The Patriots played in two Super Bowls, and won one, since the trade. It was far from a guarantee that would be the case if the Patriots had Garoppolo instead of Tom Brady, and that's why I would never call the trade a mistake. The return was lighter than it could have been. I think the reason is that some with the Patriots privately believed Garoppolo would consider a bridge-type contract to remain with the team, setting him up to take over for Brady in the future. So they played it conservatively, waiting as long as possible in hopes that would come to fruition. Once there was a realization that wasn't happening, the Patriots were no longer dealing from a position of strength. The book on Garoppolo is still being written. Franchise quarterback? To be determined. Get the best of ESPN sent to your inbox The ESPN Daily delivers the biggest sports news and moments every weekday. Email Address Sign me up! Privacy PolicyRead the Latest 3. Gilmore's Super Bowl pick: Patriots cornerback Stephon Gilmore seemed to enjoy himself in the events leading up to Sunday's Pro Bowl, doing his part to help the AFC win the entertaining skills competition on Thursday (it's no easy task "threading the needle" on him, no matter the quarterback). As for his prediction in Super Bowl LIV, Gilmore told ESPN's Dianna Russini: "I think Kansas City will win it. They have a lot of weapons. Pat Mahomes, he's the toughest guy I've played against -- besides Tom [Brady]. He's great."4. TV ratings dip without Patriots: When the Patriots play in the AFC Championship Game, more people watch. That is one conclusion that can be drawn from this snapshot, per Nielsen ratings: 2019/2020: Chiefs-Titans -- 41.11 million viewers 2018/19: Patriots-Chiefs -- 53.92 million viewers 2017/18: Patriots-Jaguars -- 44.08 million viewers 2016/17: Patriots-Steelers -- 48.0 million viewers 5. Manning-to-Manningham an all-time throw: New York Giants quarterback Eli Manning's retirement on Friday naturally resonated in New England, as his clutch play in Super Bowls XLII and XLVI denied the Patriots two Super Bowl victories. While his escape of the pass rush to deliver a long bomb to David Tyree is most often replayed, with Tyree catching the football on his helmet, I think Manning's 38-yard hookup to Mario Manningham to kick-start the game-winning drive in XLVI was an even better play. It might have been the greatest throw by an opposing quarterback against the Patriots in the coach Bill Belichick era. How did he possibly fit the ball in that tight window? Bill Barnwell  @billbarnwell Eli. Embedded video 3,842 2:06 PM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 882 people are talking about this 6. Patriots Super Bowl connections: In addition to Welker and Garoppolo, there are a few notable New England-based connections in Super Bowl LIV. Brendan Daly -- The Chiefs' run-game coordinator/defensive line coach was also the D-line coach in New England from 2015-18 after having originally joined the organization in 2014 as a general coaching assistant. That means Daly has coached in the Super Bowl five of the past six years. Mike Pennel -- The 6-foot-4, 332-pound defensive tackle, who was one of the Patriots' notable free-agent signings last offseason but didn't make it out of training camp, signed with Kansas City in October and came up big in the AFC Championship Game against the Titans. He adds a stout presence at the heart of the line of scrimmage. Anthony Sherman -- A nine-year veteran who has been the Chiefs' fullback since 2013, he hails from North Attleboro, Massachusetts, and attended college at Connecticut. Kyle Juszczyk -- The 49ers fullback, now in his seventh NFL season, totaled 125 receptions for 1,576 yards and 22 touchdowns at Harvard, leaving as the school's all-time leader in each category. Mike Borgonzi -- The Chiefs' director of football operations grew up in Everett, Massachusetts, attended Brown University and seems to be on the rise in NFL personnel circles as he finishes his 11th season in Kansas City. Adam Peters -- The 49ers' vice president of personnel landed his first NFL job with the Patriots as a scouting assistant in 2003, remaining with the team through 2008. Jarrett Stidham on transitioning from a major college program like Auburn to the NFL: "... there are definitely some similarities." Photo by Kathryn Riley/Getty Images 7. Auburn atmosphere eased transition for Stidham: With a chance to reflect on his rookie season, Patriots quarterback Jarrett Stidham credited his time at Auburn for preparing him well. One leftover from my conversation with Stidham from the Panini Rookie Closeout: "I'm not going to say it's the same thing at all, but I definitely think there are definitely some similarities, with playing at a big-time program like Auburn and then going to New England. There's obviously a big expectation at Auburn and at New England, and that sort of thing. But there's also a lot of differences. This is obviously your job, so you have to treat it a little differently and put a ton of time into it. Whereas college, you have homework, you have to go to class, study hall, whatever it may be. Here, you get to play football pretty much all day long in the NFL and work a lot, and watch a lot of film. It was a lot of fun. I really enjoyed it."Kim Smith @Kim_ASmith This quote from Coach Pees today> View image on Twitter 293 3:54 PM - Jan 20, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 51 people are talking about this 8. Pees always had a personal touch: Former Patriots linebackers coach/defensive coordinator Dean Pees (2004-09), who later went on to lead defenses with the Ravens and Titans, officially announced his retirement last week and shared some words of wisdom that could apply in all walks of life. One thought on Pees: In a business where egos can swell, he was as down-to-earth as they come, and always expressed an interest in the person beyond the reporter. 9. Cajuste still checking in: The majority of Patriots players have returned to their year-round homes, but some have remained in the area and continue to show up at Gillette Stadium. One player who falls into that category is 2019 third-round draft choice Yodny Cajuste, the offensive tackle from West Virginia who spent his entire rookie season on injured reserve (torn quad in the predraft process). The Patriots ranked low in terms of rookie impact this past season, but it often isn't until the second year that some of their selections emerge. Cajuste is a notable prospect in that regard. 10. Did You Know: Garoppolo has completed 66% of his passes that traveled at least 20 yards downfield this season, according to ESPN's Stats & Information. That is by far the highest of any quarterback this season, and the highest in a single season since 2006, when the statistic started to be tracked.+++1