Vine reboot Byte officially launches Josh Constine@joshconstine / 4:42 pm PST • January 24, 2020 Comment Byte App Two years after Vine’s co-founder Dom Hofmann  announced he was building a successor to the short-form video app, today Byte makes its debut on iOS and Android. Byte lets you shoot or upload and then share six-second videos. The tiny time limit necessitates no-filler content that’s denser than the maximum 1-minute clips on TikTok. Byte comes equipped with standard social features like a feed, Explore page, notifications, and profiles. For now, though Byte lacks the remixability, augmented reality filters, transition effects, and other bonus features you’ll find in apps like TikTok . What Hofmann hopes will differentiate Byte is an early focus on helping content creators make money — something TikTok, and other micro-entertainment apps largely don’t offer. The app plans to soon launch a pilot of its partner program for offering monetization options to people proving popular on Byte. When asked if Byte would offer ad revenue sharing, tipping, or other options to partners, Hofmann told me that “We’re looking at all of those, but we’ll be starting with a revenue share + supplementing with our own funds. We’ll have more details about exactly how the pilot program will work soon.” Many creators who’ve grown popular on apps like TikTok and Snapchat that lack direct monetization have tried to pull their audiences over to YouTube where they can earn a steady ad-share. By getting started paying early, Byte might lure some of those dancers, comedians, and pranksters over to its app and be able to retain them long-term. Former Vine stars turned TikTok stars like Chris Melberger. Joshdarnit, and Lance Stewart are already on Byte. byte @byte_app · Jan 24, 2020 Replying to @byte_app you know the drill: upload from your camera roll or use the byte camera to capture stuff. there are lots of ways to find new personalities and moments. explore what the community is watching and loving, view posts handpicked by our editors, or browse on your own. byte @byte_app very soon, we'll introduce a pilot version of our partner program which we will use to pay creators. byte celebrates creativity and community, and compensating creators is one important way we can support both. stay tuned for more info. 4,161 4:18 PM - Jan 24, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 373 people are talking about this Staying connected with Byte’s most loyal users is another way Hofmann hopes to set his app apart. He’s been actively running a beta tester forum since the initial Byte announcement in early 2018, and sees it as a way to find out what features to build next. “It’s always a bummer when the people behind online services and the people that actually use them are disconnected from one another, so we’re trying out these forums to see if we can do a better job at that” Hofmann writes. Byte founder Dom Hofmann Byte is a long time coming. To rewind all the way, Hofmann co-founded Vine in June 2012 with Colin Kroll and Rus Yusupov, but it was acquired by Twitter before its launch in January 2013. By that fall, Hofmann had left the company. But 2014 and 2015 saw Vine’s popularity grow thanks to rapid-fire comedy skits and the creativity unlocked by its looping effect. Vine reached over 200 million active users. Then the unthinkable happened. Desperate to cut costs, Twitter shut down Vine’s sharing feed in late 2016 so it wouldn’t have to host any more video content. The creative web mourned. By then, Hofmann had already built the first version of Byte, which offered more free-form creation. You could pull together photos, GIFs, drawings and more into little shareable creations. But this prototype never gained steam. Hofmann gave Vine fans hope when he announced plans to build a successor called V2 in early 2018, but cancelled it a few months later. Hofmann got more serious about the project by then end of 2018, announcing the name Byte and then beginning beta testing in April 2019. Now the big question will be whether Byte can take off despite its late start. Between TikTok, Snapchat, Instagram, and more, do people need another short-form video app? Winning here will require seducing high quality creators who can get bigger view counts elsewhere. Considering there’s already a pile of TikTok competitors like Dubsmash, Triller, Firework, and Facebook’s Lasso available in the US, creators seeking stardom on a less competitive network already have plenty of apps to try. Hofmann may have to rely on the soft spot for Vine in people’s memories to get enough activity on Byte to recreate its predecessor’s magic.+++2
Clayton Christensen, author of “The Innovator’s Dilemma,” has passed away at age 67 Connie Loizos@cookie / 5:10 pm PST • January 24, 2020 Comment Clayton Christensen Clayton Christensen,  a longtime professor at Harvard Business School who became famous worldwide after authoring the best-selling business book, “The Innovator’s Dilemma: When New Technologies Cause Great Firms to Fail,” passed away last night. The Deseret News reported earlier today that the cause tied to complications from leukemia treatments that Christensen was receiving in Boston. He was 67 years old. Clayton had suffered from ill health for years, always battling his way back. By the age of 58, Clayton — who was diagnosed with Type 1 diabetes at age 30 — had already suffered a heart attack, cancer, and a stroke, telling Forbes in 2011 that he tried to view such setbacks as opportunities, even, apparently, when they involved intensive speech therapy, which he was undergoing at the time. Clayton created opportunities for himself and others throughout his career. The business world came to know Christensen after Intel cofounder Andy Grove brought him into the company as an advisor, then announced to the world that “The Innovator’s Dilemma,” published in 1997, was the best book he’d read in 10 years. (This was saying something, given Grove’s own considerable writing skills.) Yet Christensen came from modest means. According to a 2012 profile in New Yorker magazine, he grew up on the “wrong side of the tracks” in Salt Lake City, in a Mormon household, collecting paper tray liners from fast food restaurants, and stuffing his 6′ 8″ frame into a 1986 Chevy Nova that he drove around town. According to the profile, Christensen, an excellent student and a popular one (he was student body president), “wanted to go to Harvard or Yale, and got into both, but his mother wanted him to go to Brigham Young. Not knowing what to do, he fasted and prayed, and he discovered that God agreed with his mother. That wasn’t the answer he was looking for, so he fasted and prayed some more, just to make sure he hadn’t misheard or something, but he hadn’t, so he went to Brigham Young.” There, he studied economics before and after a two-year leave of absence to serve as a volunteer full-time missionary for the LDS Church. Then it was off to Oxford, where he earned a master’s as a Rhodes Scholar, then Harvard Business School. After receiving his MBA, he landed at Boston Consulting Group, and after a few years in the working world, headed back to Harvard for a PhD so he could teach. Over the ensuing years, Christensen would write 10 books, though none were as ubiquitous as “The Innovator’s Dilemma,” which was timed perfectly in retrospect. It put forth a theory why people buy products that are often cheaper and easier to use than their more sophisticated and more expensive predecessors, and resonated widely as one incumbent after another — Xerox, U.S. Steel, Digital Equipment Corp. — stumbled while other companies began rising in their dust: think Amazon, Google, Apple. Interestingly, according to the New Yorker, one of Christensen’s rare, bad calls was his prediction that the Apple iPhone wouldn’t be widely adopted because it was too fancy. Apple cofounder Steve Jobs was a fan nevertheless. According to the Walter Isaacson biography of Jobs, published just weeks after Jobs’s death in October 2011, “The Innovator’s Dilemma” “deeply influenced” him. If you’re interested in learning more about Christensen’s views, you might enjoy this conversation between Christensen and investor-entrepreneur Marc Andreessen; it took place in 2016 at the Startup Grind series.+++1
Google backtracks on search results design Jonathan Shieber@jshieber / 3:00 pm PST • January 24, 2020 Comment Department Of Justice Expected To Launch New Anti-Trust Investigation Of Google Image Credits: Drew Angerer (opens in a new window)/ Getty Images Earlier today, Google  announced that it would be redesigning the redesign of its search results as a response to withering criticism from politicians, consumers and the press over the way in which search results displays were made to look like ads. Google makes money when users of its search service click on ads. It doesn’t make money when people click on an unpaid search result. Making ads look like search results makes Google more money. It’s also a pretty evil (or at least unethical) business decision by a company whose mantra was “Don’t be evil”(although they gave that up in 2018). Users began noticing the changes to search results last week, and at least one user flagged the changes earlier this week. Craig Mod  @craigmod There's something strange about the recent design change to google search results, favicons and extra header text: they all look like ads, which is perhaps the point? View image on Twitter 1,954 7:34 AM - Jan 21, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 752 people are talking about this Google responded with a bit of doublespeak from its corporate account about how the redesign was intended to achieve the opposite effect of what it was actually doing. “Last year, our search results on mobile gained a new look. That’s now rolling out to desktop results this week, presenting site domain names and brand icons prominently, along with a bolded ‘Ad’ label for ads,” the company wrote. Senator Mark Warner (D-VA) took a break from impeachment hearings to talk to The Washington Post about just how bad the new search redesign was. “We’ve seen multiple instances over the last few years where Google has made paid advertisements ever more indistinguishable from organic search results,” Warner told the Post. “This is yet another example of a platform exploiting its bottleneck power for commercial gain, to the detriment of both consumers and also small businesses.” Google’s changes to its search results happened despite the fact that the company is already being investigated by every state in the country for antitrust violations. For Google, the rationale is simple. The company’s advertising revenues aren’t growing the way they used to, and the company is looking at a slowdown in its core business. To try and juice the numbers, dark patterns present an attractive way forward. Indeed, Google’s using the same tricks that it once battled to become the premier search service in the U.S. When the company first launched its search service, ads were clearly demarcated and separated from actual search results returned by Google’s algorithm. Over time, the separation between what was an ad and what wasn’t became increasingly blurred. Ginny Marvin  @GinnyMarvin Color fade: A history of Google ad labeling in search results http://selnd.com/2adRCdU View image on Twitter 709 7:59 AM - Jul 25, 2016 Twitter Ads info and privacy 459 people are talking about this “Search results were near-instant and they were just a page of links and summaries – perfection with nothing to add or take away,” user experience expert Harry Brignull (and founder of the watchdog website darkpatterns.org) said of the original Google search results in an interview with TechCrunch. “The back-propagation algorithm they introduced had never been used to index the web before, and it instantly left the competition in the dust. It was proof that engineers could disrupt the rules of the web without needing any suit-wearing executives. Strip out all the crap. Do one thing and do it well.” “As Google’s ambitions changed, the tinted box started to fade. It’s completely gone now,” Brignull added. The company acknowledged that its latest experiment might have gone too far in its latest statement and noted that it will “experiment further” on how it displays results. Google SearchLiaison  @searchliaison · Jan 24, 2020 Replying to @searchliaison Our experimenting will begin today. Over the coming weeks, while we test, some might not see favicons while some might see them in different placements as we look to bring a modern look to desktop…. Google SearchLiaison  @searchliaison Here’s our full statement on why we’re going to experiment further. Our early tests of the design for desktop were positive. But we appreciate the feedback, the trust people place in Google, and we’re dedicating to improving the experience.+++2
An adult sexting site exposed thousands of models’ passports and driver’s licenses Zack Whittaker@zackwhittaker / 9:28 am PST • January 24, 2020 Comment sextpanther-exposed Image Credits: TechCrunch A popular sexting website has exposed thousands of photo IDs belonging to models and sex workers who earn commissions from the site. SextPanther, an Arizona-based adult site, stored more than 11,000 identity documents on an exposed Amazon Web Services (AWS) storage bucket, including passports, driver’s licenses and Social Security numbers, without a password. The company says on its website that it uses these documents to verify the ages of models with whom users communicate. Most of the exposed identity documents contain personal information, such as names, home addresses, dates of birth, biometrics and their photos. Although most of the data came from models in the U.S., some of the documents were supplied by workers in Canada, India and the United Kingdom. The site allows models and sex workers to earn money by exchanging with paying users text messages, photos and videos, including explicit and nude content. The exposed storage bucket also contained more than 100,000 photos and videos sent and received by the workers. It was not immediately clear who owned the storage bucket. TechCrunch asked U.K.-based penetration testing company Fidus Information Security, which has experience in discovering and identifying exposed data, to help. Researchers at Fidus quickly found evidence suggesting the exposed data could belong to SextPanther. An hour after we alerted the site’s operator, Alexander Guizzetti, to the exposed data, the storage bucket was pulled offline. “We have passed this on to our security and legal teams to investigate further. We take accusations like this very seriously,” Guizzetti said in an email, who did not explicitly confirm the bucket belonged to his company. Using information from identity documents matched against public records, we contacted several models whose information was exposed by the security lapse. “I’m sure I sent it to them,” said one model, referring to her driver’s license, which was exposed. (We agreed to withhold her name given the sensitivity of the data.) We passed along a photo of her license found in the exposed bucket. She confirmed it was her license, but said that the information on her license is no longer current. “I truly feel awful for others whom have signed up with their legit information,” she said. The security lapse comes a week after researchers found a similar cache of highly sensitive personal information of sex workers on adult webcam streaming site, PussyCash. More than 850,000 documents were insecurely stored in another unprotected storage bucket.+++2
Kraftful raises $1M to help smart home companies make better apps Greg Kumparak@grg / 1:10 pm PST • January 24, 2020 Comment kraftful screens If a thousand companies make their own smart light bulb, do a thousand companies also have to design a light switch app to control them? Kraftful, a company out of Y Combinator’s Summer 2019 class, doesn’t think so. Kraftful  builds the myriad components that an IoT/smart home company might need, puzzle piecing them together into apps for each company without requiring them to reinvent the light switch (or the padlock button, or the smart thermostat dial) for the nth time. Because no company wants an app that looks identical to a competitor’s, much of what Kraftful produces is built to be tailored to each company’s branding — all the surface-level stuff, like iconography, fonts, colors, etc. are all customizable. Under the hood, though, everything is built to be reusable. This focus on finding the parts that can be built once makes sense, especially given the team’s background. CEO Yana Welinder and CTO Nicky Leach were previously head of Product and a senior engineer, respectively, at IFTTT — the web service made up of a zillion reusable, interlinking “recipe” applets that let you hook just about anything (Gmail, Instagram, your cat’s litter box, whatever) into anything else to let one trigger actions on the other. Kraftful founders Nicky Leach and Yana Welinder So why now? More smart devices are coming onto the market every day, many of them from legacy appliance companies that don’t have much (or any) history in building smartphone apps. Good apps are the exception — the Philips Hue app is one of the better ones out there, and even it’s a little wonky sometimes. Many of them are… really bad. Bad apps get bad App Store reviews, and bad reviews dent sales. And even for those who dive in and buy it without checking the reviews first, bad apps means returned devices. According to this iQor survey from 2018, 22% of smart home customers give up and return the products before getting them to work. “We kind of looked around and realized that 80% of all smart home apps have zero, one or two stars on the App Store,” Welinder tells me. Knowing what’s working and what’s not with buyers is a strength of Kraftful’s approach; behind the scenes, they can run all sorts of analytics on how users are actually interacting with components in the apps they’re powering and adjust all of them accordingly. If they make a tweak to the setup process in one app, do more users actually get all the way through it? Great. Now roll that out everywhere. “If you look at some of the leading smart lock apps, they all have very… very similar interfaces. They’ve basically gotten to a standardized user experience, but they’ve all be developed individually,” says Welinder. “So all of these companies are spending the resources designing and developing these apps, but they’re not getting the benefit of being standardized across the board and being able to leverage data from all of these apps to be able to improve them all at once” Kraftful builds the app for both iOS and Android, tailors it to the brand’s needs, offers cloud functionality like push notifications and activity history, provides analytics for insights on how users are actually using an app and keeps everything working as OS updates roll out and as device display sizes grow ever larger. Of course, the entire concept of a dedicated app for a smart home device has some pretty fierce competition — between Apple’s HomeKit and Google Home, the platform makers themselves seem pretty set on gobbling up much of the functionality. But most buyers still expect their shiny devices to have their own apps — something branded and purpose-built, something for the manual to point them to. Power users, meanwhile, will always want to do things beyond what the all-encompassing solutions like HomeKit/Home are built for. Folks at Google seem to agree with Kraftful’s approach — the team counts the Google Assistant Investments Program as one of the investors in the $1 million they’ve raised. Other investors include YC, F7 Ventures, Cleo Capital, Julia Collins (co-founder of Zume Pizza and Planet Forward), Lukas Biewald (co-founder of CrowdFlower), Nicolas Pinto (co-founder of Perceptio) and a number of other angel investors. Welinder tells me they’re already working with multiple companies to start powering their apps; NDAs prevent her from saying who, at this point, but she notes that they’re “some of the largest brands that provide smart lights, plugs/switches, thermostats and other smart home products.”+++2
ESA TO LAUNCH SOLAR ORBITER ON 6 FEBRUARY, WILL LOOK AT THE SUN'S POLAR REGIONS The mission's goals are to find how our Sun works, investigate the Sun-Earth connection and help us understand space weather. ASIAN NEWS INTERNATIONALJAN 24, 2020 11:58:20 IST The European Space Agency's (ESA's) new Sun explorer will be launched from Cape Canaveral on 6 February. Solar Orbiter, an ESA-led mission with strong NASA participation, will provide the first views of the Sun's unchartered Polar Regions from high latitudes, giving unprecedented insight into how our parent star works. This important mission will also investigate the Sun-Earth connection, helping us to better understand and predict periods of stormy space weather. ESA to launch solar orbiter on 6 February, will look at the Suns polar regions Artist impressions of the ESA's solar orbiter that will study the Sun's polar regions and give us information on the space weather. Image credit: ESA Over the course of its mission, the spacecraft will use the gravity of Venus to slingshot it out of the plane of the Solar System, giving us new perspectives on our parent star. It will follow an elliptical orbit around the Sun, passing within the orbit of Mercury at its closest. Cutting-edge heatshield technology will ensure the spacecraft's scientific instruments are protected as they face up to 13 times the heating of satellites in Earth orbit. Solar Orbiter will use a combination of ten in situ and remote-sensing instruments to observe the turbulent solar surface, its hot outer atmosphere and changes in the solar wind. The mission will also work with NASA's Parker Solar Probe, collecting complementary datasets that will allow more science to be distilled from the two missions than either could achieve on their own. Experts will present the mission, its technical challenges and scientific goals ahead of the launch at the European Space Operations Centre (ESOC).+++2
TINDER INTRODUCES 'PANIC BUTTON' IN US THAT WILL LET USERS CONNECT WITH PERSONAL EMERGENCY SERVICES Tinder is also adding photo verification, to compare using artificial intelligence a posed photo taken in real-time to profile photos. AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSEJAN 24, 2020 11:23:38 IST Tinder announced Thursday that US users would soon have a "panic button" to alert authorities to potentially dangerous situations as part of a stepped up safety initiative by the popular dating app. A new feature unveiled by Tinder will allow users to opt into the personal safety app Noonlight, which connects users to personal emergency services. A Tinder spokesperson said the feature would roll out in the coming days in the United States and connect users to "trained dispatchers who contact authorities on behalf of the user."The new safety feature "acts as a silent bodyguard in situations when you're alone or meeting someone for the first time," said Brittany LeComte, co-founder of Noonlight. Tinder introduces Panic Button in US that will let users connect with personal emergency services Representational image. Tinder is also adding photo verification, to compare using artificial intelligence a posed photo taken in real-time to profile photos. Members with authenticated pictures will get a "badge" that verifies their images are authentic. The photo feature is being tested "in select markets" and will be widely available later this year. Tinder, known for giving users the option to "swipe" right or left to accept or reject a date, is the largest of the apps in Match Group, operating in 190 countries, claiming to facilitate one million dates per week. To help allay concerns on personal risks, Tinder said it is launching a safety center within the app to keep users informed of its resources. This feature is being launched in the United States, Britain, France and Germany and will be "localised" for additional markets throughout the year. Tinder and its online dating siblings including PlentyOfFish, OkCupid, and Hinge, which make up the Match Group, will be spun off as an independent company this year, according to parent firm IAC.+++2
CORONAVIRUS IS NOT YET A GLOBAL HEALTH EMERGENCY, SAYS WHO PANEL AFTER TWO DAY EVALUATION WHO Director-General said while the epidemic was a crisis in China, “it has not yet become a global health emergency. It may yet become one.” THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJAN 24, 2020 10:07:30 IST A viral illness in China that has sickened hundreds of people and prompted Chinese authorities to effectively shut down at least three cities is not yet a global health emergency, the World Health Organization said Thursday. The U.N. health agency issued its evaluation after Chinese authorities moved to lock down three cities indefinitely earlier in the day and canceled major public celebrations and gatherings in Beijing during the Lunar New Year holiday period to try to contain the evolving outbreak. Coronavirus is not yet a global health emergency, says WHO panel after two day evaluation WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said that the virus is a crisis in China but not in the world but they are monitoring the situation. Image credit: Twitter During a news conference in Geneva, WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said that while the epidemic was clearly a crisis in China, “it has not yet become a global health emergency. It may yet become one.” The steps taken by China to shut down cities with more than 18 million people are unprecedented in public health, as countries typically shy away from such extreme measures. Tedros said that while WHO’s role is to provide science-based recommendations, “at the end of the day, a sovereign country has the autonomy to do what it thinks is right.” However, he added that WHO hoped the actions taken by China would be “short in duration.” The decision not to declare a global emergency “should not be taken as a sign that WHO does not think the situation is serious or that we’re not taking it seriously. Nothing could be further from the truth,” Tedros said. “WHO is following this outbreak every minute of every day.” The United Nations health agency made the decision after independent experts spent two days assessing information about the spread of the newly identified coronavirus. “It’s too early to consider this as a public health emergency of international concern,” Didier Houssin, the chair of the emergency advisory committee, said, noting that the panel “was very divided, almost 50-50.” WHO defines a global emergency as an “extraordinary event” that constitutes a risk to other countries and requires a coordinated international response. Previous global emergencies have been declared for crises including the emergence of Zika virus in the Americas, the swine flu pandemic, and polio. A declaration of a global emergency typically brings greater money and resources, but may also prompt nervous foreign governments to restrict travel and trade to affected countries. Deciding whether an outbreak amounts to an international crisis therefore can also be politically fraught. In 2014, WHO initially resisted declaring the devastating Ebola epidemic in West Africa to be a global emergency because it feared the announcement would anger Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone. The U.N. agency ultimately declared the Ebola outbreak as a global emergency after more than 1,000 people had died and the virus had spread across multiple national borders. Houssin suggested during the news conference in Geneva that China’s view of the outbreak was a factor in Thursday’s decision. “The perception of this declaration by the international community, in the most affected country, by the people struggling with the virus, certainly has to be considered,” he said. Hundreds of people infected with the new virus have fallen ill in China, and 17 have died. The first cases appeared last month in Wuhan, an industrial and transportation hub in central China. Other cases have been reported in the United States, Japan, South Korea and Thailand. Singapore, Vietnam and Hong Kong reported their first cases Thursday. While airports in many major cities around the world have instituted health screenings for arriving passengers from China, Tedros said that “for the moment, WHO does not recommend any broader restrictions on travel or trade.” Dr. Peter Piot, director of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, said that regardless of the decision not to declare an emergency, many more resources were needed to stop the virus. “There are still many missing pieces in the jigsaw puzzle to fully understanding this new virus, which is spreading rapidly across China and most probably around the world,” Piot said in a statement. “There cannot be any complacency as to the need for global action.”+++2
DAIMLER PLANS TO PUSH OUT 50,000 MERCEDES EQC ELECTRIC CAR MODELS THIS YEAR Daimler wanted to sell around 25,000 EQC vehicles in 2019, but only managed to build around 7,000. REUTERSJAN 24, 2020 10:26:20 IST Daimler on Thursday said it plans to build 50,000 Mercedes EQC electric cars this year, denying a report in Manager Magazin which claimed it had been forced to pare back its 2020 production targets due to battery supply problems. Manager Magazin said Mercedes had slashed its production target to 30,000 from about 60,000 because of a shortage of battery cells from LG Chem . Daimler wanted to sell around 25,000 EQC vehicles in 2019, but only managed to build around 7,000 for the same reason, Manager Magazin said. A Daimler spokesman said its production plans for 2020 had not been amended. "Daimler plans to produce around 50,000 Mercedes-Benz EQC models in 2020," spokesman Joerg Howe said. Daimler plans to push out 50,000 Mercedes EQC electric car models this year Image: Reuters LG Chem could not be reached for comment outside of normal business hours. Carmakers face huge fines next year if they fail to cut their fleet emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2). Daimler had average fleet emissions of 130.4 grams of CO2 per kilometre in 2018 and needs to hit a target of 103.1 grams per km by 2021, PA Consulting has forecast. If Daimler fails to cut its CO2 footprint, it faces a fine of 997 million euros (842 million pounds), PA Consulting said in a report published this month. In 2018, average CO2 emissions in the European Union rose by 1.6 percent to 120.4 grams per km as customers abandoned diesel vehicles and gravitated towards buying bigger vehicles. Figures for 2019 are not yet available. Daimler's works council chief Michael Brecht told Manager Magazin that one of the reasons the company is struggling to meet battery demand is because Tesla bought Grohmann Engineering, a battery automation specialist hired by Mercedes-Benz to build up its own battery manufacturing capacity. This caused problems for Daimler which was in the midst of ramping up production at its electric vehicle battery production unit Deutsche Accumotive. The launch of the EQC has been hampered by production problems, including a recall last October after Daimler identified a potentially defective bolt in the differential. Germany's Auto Bild magazine on Thursday said the launch of the Mercedes EQC in North America has been postponed by a year, until 2021, because of the production problems.+++2
Can This Notorious Troll Turn People Away From Extremism? Steven Bonnell, known online as Destiny, has made a business of picking fights with alt-right carnival barkers and other partisan provocateurs. A man wearing headphones sitting at his desk in front of a computer Steven Bonnell at home in Los Angeles.PHOTOGRAPH: SPENCER LOWELL “My overall point,” Dick Masterson says, barely a minute into his conversation with Steven Bonnell, “is that I think you’re kind of a weaselly piece of shit.” “Why do you think I’m weaselly?” Bonnell replies in his slight, entreating lisp. “You argue like a scumbag,” Masterson explains. It’s less than a year into Donald Trump’s presidency and Bonnell is hosting a debate on his Twitch stream with Masterson, a chippy, mustached “Rand Paul Republican” who helms a weekly podcast called The Dick Show. Bonnell, known online as Destiny, has recently made a career of tussling with right-wing figures for the entertainment of his followers, who total about 200,000 on YouTube and more than 500,000 on Twitch. He has already dispatched a number of opponents whose notoriety exceeds Masterson’s. But this debate—this utterly fruitless debate—is where Bonnell’s intervention into the politics of the internet sublimates into its ideal. WIRED February 2020 cover showing actor Chris Evans February 2020. Subscribe to WIRED.PHOTOGRAPH: ART STREIBER The disagreement at hand, ostensibly, is whether Trump is racist toward Mexican people, with Bonnell arguing in favor of the motion and Masterson against. For the most part, though, they bicker over the conventions of argumentation itself. Bonnell says that Masterson must cite evidence, not “feelings,” to support his claims; Masterson insists that Bonnell is a “condescending fuck” who uses “stupid arguing tricks.” These hopeless exchanges go on for 45 minutes, as fans flood the stream chat with Pepe the Frog memes and call Masterson names like “scrawny little bitch.” He is reduced to a mumbling state of rage. The two men end by trading insults: Bonnell is short, Masterson bald. “All right, that was about as cancerous as I thought it’d be,” Bonnell says as he logs off. +++2
The vitriol is a typical hazard of the job Bonnell has given himself. Eight hours a day, seven days a week, he sits in the sunless office of his apartment in Los Angeles, playing games like Starcraft 2 or League of Legends and arguing with anyone who’s in the mood. His desk has the quality of a nerve center. Wires converge from around the room on a pair of monitors, a softbox light, a glaring LED panel, and a camera whose eye is positioned less than two feet from Bonnell’s pale, faintly perspiring forehead. On either side of his chair are an old Casio keyboard and a pearl white Fender Strat, recently purchased. He usually starts streaming around noon; within half an hour, he’s discussing the rights of trans people, or the theory of consequentialism, or the fate of American democracy. Most Popular SCIENCE An AI Epidemiologist Sent the First Alerts of the Wuhan Virus ERIC NIILER SCIENCE Scientists Predict Wuhan's Virus Outbreak Will Get Much Worse MEGAN MOLTENI SECURITY The Sneaky Simple Malware That Hits Millions of Macs BRIAN BARRETT CULTURE Dolly Parton's Meme Exposes Social Media's Masquerade EMMA GREY ELLIS Bonnell first waded into the online political discourse a few years ago, driven by a kind of intellectual fury. As he sees it, many of the web’s most influential gurus and luminaries are bewilderingly incapable of critical thought. Since 2016, Bonnell says, he has confronted more than a hundred figures from across the ideological spectrum, especially on the far right. His opponents have included self-proclaimed “skeptics” and “race realists,” a libertarian activist currently running for “Not-President of the United States,” an anonymous representative of the neo-Nazi website The Daily Stormer, and the Scottish provocateur Mark Meechan (aka Count Dankula), who was once arrested and fined by the Scottish government for posting a video of his girlfriend’s pug giving the Nazi salute. Bonnell has even debated his mother for her—by his lights untenable—support of Trump and the Republican Party. “Most people,” he says, “are two to three questions away from utter collapse.” Bonnell’s contests are nothing like competitive forensics or the polite affairs at your local university. He made his bones in the more trollish quarters of the internet, where civility is a laughable and dead tradition. The humor—at the expense of disability, ethnicity, tragedy—is depraved. Everything is game. When Bonnell is intellectually stimulated or annoyed, which is most of the time, his rate of speech rises to that of a seasoned auctioneer. He has called his opponents “too fucking stupid to tell your ass from your fucking sister”; he has also advised them to “sterilize” themselves. So far, his boorish behavior has gotten him suspended four times from Twitch and banned three times from Twitter. But it’s been good for business: He recently moved to LA from Nebraska, where his 8-year-old son lives, in order to increase his exposure. As in any respectable blood sport, the fights last as long as they need to, sometimes as many as six hours. Eventually, everybody runs out of bullshit, and this is when Bonnell’s work truly begins. He seems all but immune to intimidation or cruelty, and he isn’t bothered by views that might seem vile to others. (Indeed, he subscribes to a few of them himself.) What enrages him most is mendacity. “If you’re a Nazi or a KKK person, if you want to talk about white supremacy, then go for it,” Bonnell says. “Just don’t lie about it. Don’t make information up. I want to make sure everybody is in the same world and is dealing with the same factbook.” Without that common set of truths, Bonnell says, we enter the dangerous condition of “epistemic polarity.” The idea is that there exists in the United States a variety of decoupled social realities: a reality in which undocumented immigrants and asylum seekers pose an existential threat to the nation and one in which they do not; a reality in which vaccines cause autism and one in which they do not; a reality in which climate change is a farcical means of social control and one in which it presents a threat to civilization; a reality in which a clandestine cabal of Jews subjugates humanity and one in which this is known as a virulent lie. These realities share no factual basis with each other and thus present no hope of ever establishing consensus. “I think the path we’re on now sends us to destruction,” he says. Bonnell grew up in a conservative Catholic household in the suburbs of Omaha. Now 31, he belongs to the first generation for whom it was possible to be raised on video­games—in his case, Japanese role-playing games, whose text-heavy interfaces he credits with making him an adept reader. His parents moved away when he was a teenager to take care of an aging relative with Alzheimer’s, and he lived with his grandmother until he turned 18. He learned, he says, to be intensely self-reliant. Most Popular SCIENCE An AI Epidemiologist Sent the First Alerts of the Wuhan Virus ERIC NIILER SCIENCE Scientists Predict Wuhan's Virus Outbreak Will Get Much Worse MEGAN MOLTENI SECURITY The Sneaky Simple Malware That Hits Millions of Macs BRIAN BARRETT CULTURE Dolly Parton's Meme Exposes Social Media's Masquerade EMMA GREY ELLIS After high school, Bonnell enrolled at the University of Nebraska to study music while working full time as a restaurant manager at a nearby casino, mostly at night. His experience of juggling the two commitments was frustrating, sleepless, and ultimately unmanageable. Forced to choose between a paycheck or an education, he dropped out of school in 2010. Within a year, he was fired from his job. Bonnell attributes this to his own failure to navigate workplace politics. “Empathy isn’t something that comes naturally to me,” he says. “It’s very hard for me to understand other people’s emotional experiences.” Crestfallen, he cashed out his 401(k) and took refuge in videogames and internet culture. Although the streaming industry didn’t really exist yet, Bonnell discovered a community of brash young gamers who shared his morbid sense of humor and his penchant for confrontation. When the casino money ran out, he took a job cleaning carpets. He spent 12-hour days lugging power scrubbers in and out of a company truck; sometimes he encountered water damage and would cut his bare hands on fiberglass insulation he pulled from sodden walls. He was paid on commission, averaging $3 or $4 an hour. “The worst part about being poor,” he says, “is the understanding that every day is potentially the worst day of your life.” It was during this time that Bonnell received “one of the most hurtful comments I’ve heard.” A customer told him, after chatting with him for a few moments, “Wow. You’re really smart for a carpet cleaner.” By 2011, the streaming industry was rapidly growing. Bonnell began selling ad space on his channels. Eventually, he quit his job and made streaming a full-time gig, earning more than $100,000 his first year. But even as his financial prospects improved, Bonnell was painfully withdrawing from a relationship with the mother of his son. (The two are now on friendly terms, and Bonnell sees his son often.) This experience, along with the indignities of forgoing college, being fired from a job at which he felt he excelled, and enduring years of profitless, grueling labor, did not soften Bonnell’s combative personality nor lighten his view of the world. He describes his political identity at the time as “anti-SJW”—against “social justice warriors.” These were days when words like cunt and retard would reflexively exit Bonnell’s mouth, along with what has become a debased salutation on the internet: “Kill yourself.” The comic value of a gag was measured by its repugnance. Bonnell once quarreled on Twitter with a woman who claimed she’d been sexually assaulted. At the end of their exchange, she told him to go fuck himself. “I hope you get raped with a fucking shovel,” he replied. Related Stories article image FREE SPEECH Our Best Hope for Civil Discourse Is on ... Reddit VIRGINIA HEFFERNAN Pro-Trump, anti-Trump protesters clash in Berkeley INTERNET CULTURE Don't Look Now, but Extremists' Meme Armies Are Turning Into Militias EMMA GREY ELLIS Amouranth in cosplay DIGITAL CULTURE Twitch's Non-Gamers Are Finally Having Their Moment CECILIA D'ANASTASIO Bonnell’s early antics are indefensible, but they were not, and are not, unusual. It’s fairly well documented that when a large cohort of young men express themselves online, many choose to engage in a perverse kind of catharsis, uttering precisely what they have been forbidden to say in daylit civilization. This happens in the physical world too, but is typically curbed by the normal process of socialization: A child says something inappropriate, subverting what he sees as the arbitrary nature of social norms, and an adult corrects him. But for those who spend most of their free time in front of screens, behind the veil of anonymity, the feedback loop fails. When these young men go online, their behavior betrays that they know they should not thoughtlessly abuse others (how could it be funny otherwise?), but they fundamentally cannot grasp why. Most Popular SCIENCE An AI Epidemiologist Sent the First Alerts of the Wuhan Virus ERIC NIILER SCIENCE Scientists Predict Wuhan's Virus Outbreak Will Get Much Worse MEGAN MOLTENI SECURITY The Sneaky Simple Malware That Hits Millions of Macs BRIAN BARRETT CULTURE Dolly Parton's Meme Exposes Social Media's Masquerade EMMA GREY ELLIS Bonnell’s political outlook began to change in 2012, when he was 23. On a trip to Poland for a gaming competition, he heard a fellow streamer say of a mutual acquaintance who was gay, “I hate that fucking faggot.” The slur was not a subversive joke; it was used with sincerity and venom—and for the first time it unnerved Bonnell. “It made me feel so incredibly uncomfortable,” he says, “because it was like, holy shit, this guy hates gay people.” He decided that it was not reasonable, nor really possible, to expect his audience to discern the intentional subtleties in his use of certain slurs, so he stopped using them. Mostly. It’s an ongoing effort, he concedes, because he’s always discovering new ways his language can cause offense. (He recently eliminated the insult virgin from his vocabulary.) And he sees no reason to censor his humor in private; not long ago, he admitted on Twitch to using the n-word when joking among close friends. After the incident in Poland, Bonnell’s views began to shift from a reactionary libertarianism toward more liberal terrain. Lucas Nuzzo, a fellow streamer who befriended him years ago, says Bonnell took to politics in the same obsessive way he approaches games. “He does a deep dive into anything he does,” Nuzzo says. “He reads about it all the time; he talks about it all the time.” A true creature of the internet, Bonnell relies on Wikipedia for general knowledge. His understanding of political issues is deep but not especially wide; what he cares about most is being able to verify or disprove specific claims. (He is intimately familiar, for example, with the work of George Borjas, a Harvard economist who studies immigration, mostly because Borjas is frequently miscited by the right in order to demonize immigrants.) From his new vantage, Bonnell could see an alarming trend: Online political discourse, whether on forums like Reddit or on YouTube, was dominated by reactionary thinking, antifeminism, and white nationalism. This was true even among his own fans, some of whom reacted savagely to the inclusion of Hispanic or gay characters in videogames. What irritated Bonnell most, though, was not so much the rightward skew but the anti-intellectualism that drove it. “It was around the Trump election cycle when I started to look at the online political conversation and realized how many stupid arguments were being made,” he says. Image may contain Face Human Person and Beard Bonnell discovered how a successful debate very often ends—not with a logical coup de grâce but with a humdrum admission of intellectual laziness.PHOTOGRAPH: SPENCER LOWELL Most Popular SCIENCE An AI Epidemiologist Sent the First Alerts of the Wuhan Virus ERIC NIILER SCIENCE Scientists Predict Wuhan's Virus Outbreak Will Get Much Worse MEGAN MOLTENI SECURITY The Sneaky Simple Malware That Hits Millions of Macs BRIAN BARRETT CULTURE Dolly Parton's Meme Exposes Social Media's Masquerade EMMA GREY ELLIS Bonnell’s first major political debate took place about a month after the 2016 election. For weeks, his fans had been skirmishing on Twitter with the followers of a YouTube firebrand called Sargon of Akkad, the bizarre Mesopotamian nom de guerre of Carl Benjamin, who recently ran for a seat in the European Parliament as a member of the far-right UK Independence Party. After much instigation, the two agreed to meet online and have it out. It would be a pivotal moment for Bonnell: He would get a chance to establish his bona fides—his argumentative style, his celestial capacity for patience—before an enormous audience. And he would have an opportunity to marshal the new knowledge he had garnered in his political transition. Benjamin was in many ways a perfect foil for Bonnell. He was among a cohort of early YouTubers who had colonized the platform with a politics constituted by antifeminism, stalwart individualism, a disdain for religion (especially Islam), and opposition to social justice. Borrowing the obfuscatory tactics of white supremacists, they masked their beliefs in high-flown words like reason, science, rationality, facts, and logic. They weren’t reactionaries; they were “skeptics.” (Benjamin calls himself an “English liberal.”) This sort of language infuriated Bonnell. He saw it essentially as a snake-oil version of his own ambition to foster independent thinking in viewers. The seductive ruse assured young, confused viewers that their restless doubt about politics—Who is right? Which cause is mine?—was not a kind of moral ignorance but a distinguishing talent, one that set them apart from belligerent feminists, chattering liberals, and other unthinking ideologues. One could calmly reason toward political truths; it just so happened that these truths curiously resembled those proffered by the alt-right. Bonnell estimates he has received hundreds of emails from disaffected former alt-righters. One man found himself “drifting away from extremist content.” He thanked Bonnell for giving him “the tools to disprove my own opinions.” Within an hour after the debate started, Bonnell and Benjamin had wrapped themselves around an axle. They disagreed over the causes of the disproportionate poverty found in certain black communities in the United States. Benjamin blamed low rates of marriage and high rates of children born out of wedlock. The solution, he maintained, was more marriages, because marriage is correlated with higher levels of wealth. Bonnell seized upon the logical fallacy. “You’re putting the cart before the horse,” he said. “Wealthy people tend to get married. That doesn’t mean getting married makes you wealthy.” He unwrapped a cheeseburger and began chewing. “You understand the difference between correlation and causation, right?” “But this is causative,” Benjamin said. Sensing vulnerability, Bonnell applied pressure. If there were a causal link between single parenthood and poverty, he said, then he should never be able to find a successful single parent at all. “O-OK,” Benjamin stammered. “I walk that back.” This, Bonnell would discover, is how a successful debate very often ends—not with a logical coup de grâce or a stunning rhetorical maneuver but with a small humdrum admission of intellectual laziness. Most of Bonnell’s opponents, under the scrutiny of thousands of eyes, would rather seem thick, dishonest, or emotionally unstable than merely ignorant, which is what makes that tiny admission so powerful—and the hours of pedantry and contempt worthwhile. Bonnell was rewarded with sardonic comments on his YouTube page. One viewer wrote, “If there was one conclusion drawn here, it is that the solution to racism is forcing black kids to marry each other.” Another wrote: “I was poor, then I got married 10 times and now I’m a billionaire! Carl is right!” Over the past several years, as politicians, journalists, and researchers have sought an explanation for the rise of extremism online, a familiar technocratic narrative has emerged. It says that the social media behemoths—and YouTube in particular—are shepherding innocent young minds into the cognitive snares of white nationalists and neo-Nazis by tuning their recommendation algorithms to favor extremist content. One 2019 working paper on the “radicalization pipeline” even characterized viewers’ radicalization by varying degrees of “infection”; someone who was highly active in the alt-right digital universe was said to carry a “severe” infection, like tuberculosis or MRSA. Most Popular SCIENCE An AI Epidemiologist Sent the First Alerts of the Wuhan Virus ERIC NIILER SCIENCE Scientists Predict Wuhan's Virus Outbreak Will Get Much Worse MEGAN MOLTENI SECURITY The Sneaky Simple Malware That Hits Millions of Macs BRIAN BARRETT CULTURE Dolly Parton's Meme Exposes Social Media's Masquerade EMMA GREY ELLIS YouTube does not regularly make the mechanics of its recommendation system available to the public, and it frequently changes its algorithmic recipes. Until 2016, the system optimized for “watch time.” Now, according to a company spokesperson, it privileges attributes like “information quality” and “user satisfaction,” neither of which the spokesperson was willing to define in any detail. The lack of transparency makes independent analysis virtually impossible. Perhaps as a result, YouTube’s algorithms have earned a sinister place in the public imagination, right alongside Facebook’s News Feed. If the recommendation system is truly a horrifyingly competent engine of radicalization, then it’s difficult to imagine Bonnell or anyone else making much of an impact. +++2
Yet the familiar narrative may be incomplete. Last fall, Kevin Munger and Joseph Phillips, a pair of political scientists at Penn State, published a corrective study of radicalization on YouTube. Using the platform’s API, which is publicly available, they examined metadata from nearly a million videos, drawn from 54 different channels. They sorted the channels into five segments: liberals (including Bonnell), skeptics, conservatives, alt-lite, and alt-right. (These last two categories distinguished between carnival barkers like Milo Yiannopoulos and white supremacists like Richard Spencer.) Munger and Phillips found that while overall viewership in all five categories has boomed in the past decade, viewer­ship of alt-lite and alt-right channels has actually declined since mid 2017. The highest growth, by far, occurred in the conservative category, which includes mainstream commentators like Ben Shapiro. In seeking to explain their results, Munger and Phillips eschew the “radicalization by algorithm” hypothesis. Instead, they propose a “supply and demand” framework. YouTube, they point out, has an unprecedented ability to match “radical alternative political canons” with the communities that are prone to be persuaded by them. It allows these underserved audiences to begin “consuming media more consistent” with their true beliefs and sentiments. So while the platform may well facilitate the spread of radical ideas, it does not implant them into the minds of unsuspecting viewers. What it does do, Munger and Phillips write, is afford radicalized viewers a sense of community and shared purpose that they struggle to find in their ordinary lives. That the far right has been able, however artificially, to fulfill these needs for thousands of people—mostly white men—is what makes this phenomenon genuinely dangerous. Scott Atran, a widely respected anthropologist who studies terrorism, religion, and international conflict, has written about the similarities between the far right in America and violent extremists in the Muslim world. In both groups, Atran says, the ability to divert or deradicalize someone “depends on where along the path to radicalization” they are. Earlier on in the process, he says, various forms of persuasion—an income, a prison sentence, a supportive community—“might do the trick.” But if the person has bought into the radical group’s “sacred values,” the beliefs they will not compromise for anything (like, say, ethnic purity or racial supremacy), then it becomes vastly more difficult to deter them. Bonnell shares none of the far right’s values, sacred or otherwise, but he is uniquely positioned to intervene. In 2018 the Data & Society Research Institute published a report charting the relationships between some of YouTube’s popular political voices. There, in a visualization on the report’s 11th page, lodged above the men’s rights activist Stefan Molyneux, pinched between the anti-­immigrant pundit Lauren Southern and the self-proclaimed “disaffected liberal” Tim Pool, is Destiny. Bonnell has entangled himself, like a gadfly, into a web of contrarianism and derangement. To the extent that Bonnell manages to deter radicalization and make people think critically, then, it is not because he has hijacked YouTube’s recommendation algorithms but because he knows the cultural norms that the far right trades in. If you’re someone who has succumbed to reactionary politics online, you’ll see in Bonnell a kindred spirit—a college dropout from Nebraska who scoffs at political civility, revels in seamy, self-referential humor, and will talk openly about literally anything. And, perhaps most important, you’ll see someone who has spent years cultivating a community that is more likely to forgive your past indiscretions than to shame you for them. Sign Up Today Sign Up for WIRED's Longreads Newsletter Sign up for our Longreads newsletter for the best features, ideas, and investigations from WIRED. It’s more or less impossible for Bonnell to measure how effective he has been, so he grudgingly relies on intuition. After any debate, he spends a great deal of time scouring the various forums of the internet—Reddit, 4chan, comment threads on YouTube or Facebook—in search of minds perturbed. In doing so, he has noticed a common formulation of doubt among viewers, which he generalizes as, “You know, I normally really like Figure X and I think Destiny is a fucking idiot, but I don’t think Figure X responded well to what he said.” Most Popular SCIENCE An AI Epidemiologist Sent the First Alerts of the Wuhan Virus ERIC NIILER SCIENCE Scientists Predict Wuhan's Virus Outbreak Will Get Much Worse MEGAN MOLTENI SECURITY The Sneaky Simple Malware That Hits Millions of Macs BRIAN BARRETT CULTURE Dolly Parton's Meme Exposes Social Media's Masquerade EMMA GREY ELLIS One seemingly anodyne admission of doubt can, like a potent acid, slowly dissolve an entire system of thought. Bonnell estimates he has received hundreds of emails from disaffected former alt-­righters. One man found himself “drifting away from extremist content.” He thanked Bonnell for giving him “the tools to disprove my own opinions, while avoiding the propaganda that reinforced it.” Another grateful fan wrote that “the tipping points for me were when you covered Jordan Peterson (a seemingly wholesome do-gooder) [and] made Sargon look like a buffoon.” Bonnell’s most public success story was his influence on Caleb Cain, a white college dropout who, in a recent New York Times feature, credits two YouTubers—Bonnell and the left-wing “video essayist” Natalie Wynn—with his turn away from the alt-right. After watching a few Destiny debates, Cain recalls, “I started learning how a lot of the crises and fears of the far right were overblown. And a lot of their facts were misused.” He adds that Bonnell’s “edgy personality” and barbed humor were familiar and made him feel at ease. Bonnell’s political debates have invited a somewhat predictable criticism from the left. As spectacular as many of the contests are, they carry a risk of legitimizing the lies inherent in the subjects discussed—that Jews control the world, that black people are intellectually inferior to white people, that minorities aspire to commit white genocide. A popular leftist YouTuber named Shaun, who asked that his last name not be used for reasons of personal safety, thinks Bonnell’s is probably a lost cause. Far-right figureheads can never actually be persuaded, he believes, because they aren’t arguing in good faith. “It is very difficult to have an honest debate with someone whose paycheck depends on them refusing to admit they are wrong,” he writes in an email. Bonnell’s fans have confronted him with similar criticisms, which he regards as a manifestation of the same naivete that allowed so many to be shocked by the election of Donald Trump. The strategy of ignoring those who hold detestable views and ideas, Bonnell believes, is simply counterproductive. Besides, he agrees that there is no convincing his interlocutors. That’s not his goal. The audience—a small section of the audience—is his ultimate target. He abides by what he calls the 40-40-20 rule, which holds that, in any debate, 40 percent of the audience holds an implacable allegiance to one side, another 40 percent is equally committed to the other side, and an ambivalent 20 percent in the middle is movable. Bonnell says he is reluctant to abandon his strategy, because, for one thing, it feeds his narcissism. It also earns him a lot of money. More than that, though, Bonnell feels, not without reason, that he is uniquely equipped to handle the emotional toll of confronting some of the worst people on the internet. The threats are constant. Threats against his life, threats to rape his son, threats against the mother of his son—these come with regularity through every channel imaginable. Once, he made the mistake of publicly discussing the death of a close friend who committed suicide 10 years ago. Later, an opponent erupted in baby talk: “My friend killed himself, guys! My friend killed himself, so you guys should feel bad for me!” People falsely report him to the authorities for making bomb threats, harboring child pornography, and threatening to kill conservatives. “I just had my third FBI visit,” Bonnell says. He’s on a first-name basis with one local agent. “Usually Chris calls me and says, ‘Hey, we need you to come in and chat,’ ” Bonnell explains, smiling darkly. Most Popular SCIENCE An AI Epidemiologist Sent the First Alerts of the Wuhan Virus ERIC NIILER SCIENCE Scientists Predict Wuhan's Virus Outbreak Will Get Much Worse MEGAN MOLTENI SECURITY The Sneaky Simple Malware That Hits Millions of Macs BRIAN BARRETT CULTURE Dolly Parton's Meme Exposes Social Media's Masquerade EMMA GREY ELLIS It’s a warm August afternoon in Los Angeles and Bonnell is debating the merits of capitalism with Emerican “EJ” Johnson, a self-described anarcho-communist who hosts a YouTube channel and Twitch stream called Non-Compete. Bonnell’s larger project has recently taken an unexpected detour into the left-wing discourse of the internet. He sees partisans like Johnson as strikingly similar to their right-wing nemeses, particularly in the ways they argue (evasively, he says) and invoke history (misleadingly, he says). This particular contest pits the idealism and punishingly theoretical vernacular of leftism—Johnson introduces his partner, Luna, who is Vietnamese, as a “Marxist-­Leninist of the Ho Chi Minh school”—against the prosaic reformism of liberal capitalism. Caleb Cain, who recently launched his own deradicalization project, modeled after Bonnell’s debates, moderates. Johnson’s main contention is that capitalism is a system of unjustifiable hierarchies that restrains humanity’s potential. Its central socioeconomic promise—that you can grasp some control of your fate through work—is a lie. And when capitalism inevitably fails the majority of the population, Johnson says, the wrong people, be they Mexican or black or Jewish, are blamed for society’s dysfunction and decadence. The threats are constant. Threats against Bonnell’s life, threats to rape his son, threats against the mother of his son—these come with regularity through every channel imaginable. Bonnell admits all of this but sees no reason to abandon a system that has demonstrated its potential for improvement. The experience of black Americans, he argues, has gotten marginally but measurably better in the United States over the centuries since its founding. Bonnell is also deeply skeptical of the nebulous systems of thought that constitute contemporary socialism. He presents Johnson with a scenario in which a fully democratic factory (the favored socialist synecdoche) happens to be composed of a majority of racist white workers, who vow to never elect a black manager. His question is, How can the black workers rectify this injustice? Johnson answers with anemic hypotheticals, such as the black workers forming a political coalition to concentrate their power. When Bonnell is at his best, he is able to make a superior version of his opponent’s case; this is both his most impressive and, for his adversaries, his most humiliating ability. But during the debate with Johnson, his thinking becomes uncharacteristically lazy. At the contest’s highest point of tension, Bonnell claims, hyperbolically, that if Vietnam had not been a communist country in the ’60s and ’70s, it could have better withstood being manipulated and carpet-­bombed by a capitalist superpower. “If your countries roll over because they can’t defend themselves, that sounds like a good argument for my system,” he says, laughing at Luna’s dismay. A more cognizant Bonnell might have noted that the US’ imperial dominance after World War II cannot be attributed solely to capitalism. As the debate winds down, Bonnell seems bored, depleted. He sighs. Now years into his intervention into online politics, he is discovering that many of his leftist and progressive fans merely want a mouthpiece for their own views, which, though he considers them less barbaric and inane than the far right’s, sometimes carry their own delusions. That people can fail to reason seems to him, at times, unimaginable—or, at any rate, intolerable. This feeling is the source of Bonnell’s defining mannerism: When he encounters a profoundly stupid idea, he stops speaking, a slightly pained look creeping across his cheeks. As his incredulity builds, he squeezes his eyes shut, twists his neck, and begins violently convulsing in his chair. It’s as if his nervous system simply cannot accept that people sincerely believe the crazy shit they so often say. article image Free Speech, Tech Turmoil, and the New Censorship Special Issue: How technology is upending everything we thought we knew about public discourse. To some extent, Bonnell’s experience validates the vague liberal concern that infectious ideas are spreading online. But this popular notion commits itself to a perfunctory metaphor—that ideas are pathogens passed from one mind to the next upon exposure. In this view, the YouTube user is not an independent moral agent but a helpless victim of the algorithm. The liberal complaint isn’t that YouTube is engaged in a kind of social engineering; it’s that the platform is engineering for a politically undesirable output. Bonnell’s approach to radicalization, so far, could not be further from this casual anti-­intellectualism. As hopeless and sapping as his project often seems, it puts stock in the human capacity for reason. Most Popular SCIENCE An AI Epidemiologist Sent the First Alerts of the Wuhan Virus ERIC NIILER SCIENCE Scientists Predict Wuhan's Virus Outbreak Will Get Much Worse MEGAN MOLTENI SECURITY The Sneaky Simple Malware That Hits Millions of Macs BRIAN BARRETT CULTURE Dolly Parton's Meme Exposes Social Media's Masquerade EMMA GREY ELLIS Still, there have been times when Bonnell wondered aloud whether the American population is cognitively equipped to govern itself. As he said to one viewer, rather frankly, “I think that people in general are stupid, and I’ve actually lost my appreciation for democracy at this point.” Not too long ago, Bonnell inveighed against efforts to “deplatform” prominent figures on the internet, citing his commitment to freedom of speech. Today he supports, albeit waveringly, the opposite: Those who willingly lie and misinform at great scale should be silenced. His weary cynicism about the ordinary intellect is what you might expect from someone who has spent years trying to get people to change not what they think but how they think. That has always been slow, hard work. And it would be almost understandable, in the midst of so much thankless labor, in a climate so wracked by fear over the dangerous contents of the American mind, to forget why you started in the first place. Trevor Quirk (@trevorquirk) is a writer living in Asheville, North Carolina. He is working on a book about nihilism in American culture. This article appears in the February issue. Subscribe now. Let us know what you think about this article. Submit a letter to the editor at mail@wired.com.+++2
An Origin Story, Smart Headlights, and Other Car News General Motors' Cruise unit shows off its self-driving concept vehicle, while Hyundai smothers road noise. A white car in front of the Seattle skyline PHOTOGRAPH: STEPHEN BRASHEAR/CRUISE The future comes in fits and starts, and we buckled up and went through a few this week. Cruise, General Motors’ self-driving unit, hosted a big party in San Francisco to launch Origin, an electric six-seat, steering wheel-free vehicle that it says is the future of shared autonomy. The vehicle will go into production...sometime, and we still have plenty of questions. Our reporters also learned about little vehicle tweaks coming down the pike that might make your life a bit better: smart headlights that won’t blind your fellow drivers, and a system from Hyundai that might cancel out some of the more unpleasant sounds of the road. Plus, we looked at what it might take to make public transit better for women everywhere, and why you might not see emotional support rabbits on your next flight. It’s been a week; let’s get you caught up. Want to receive this roundup as an email every week? Sign up here! Headlines Stories you might have missed from WIRED this week The global, techified fight against snarge—a silly word for the scary thing that happens when a bird hits an airplane midair. Finally, the federal government and safety groups settle on a way to talk about advanced driver assistance tech. Before transit agencies can make service work for women, they need more data. Hyundai’s new Genesis GV80 SUV comes with a sound system for cancelling road noise to nix that loud tire roar. The feds might rein in emotional support animals on flights. There’s a litany of issues at Boeing, which said this week that the 737 MAX probably won’t be approved for flight again until the middle of the year. Meet Origin, the self-driving shuttle of the future, which Cruise says it will really put into production sometime soon. The future of laser headlights, it turns out, is very bright—and much more friendly to human eyes. Superstar Bike Lover of the Week The Lakers’ LeBron James has teamed up with Lyft and the YMCA to offer 16-to-20-year-olds access to Lyft-operated bike-share programs, including New York’s CitiBike, the Bay Area’s Bay Wheels, and Capital Bikeshare in Washington, DC. LeBronb has long been a low key bike commuter, and has been known to cycle to games. Stat of the Week: 61% The share of total miles ride-hail vehicles traveled without a passenger in the car in 2018, according to an estimate released by the California Air Resources Board last month. The report also estimated that the ride-hail fleet—Uber, Lyft and others—emitted 50 percent more CO2 than the statewide vehicle fleet average, even though the cars are generally newer, include fewer light trucks and are more fuel efficient than those in the statewide fleet. Required Reading News from elsewhere on the internet Most Popular SCIENCE An AI Epidemiologist Sent the First Alerts of the Wuhan Virus ERIC NIILER SCIENCE Scientists Predict Wuhan's Virus Outbreak Will Get Much Worse MEGAN MOLTENI SECURITY The Sneaky Simple Malware That Hits Millions of Macs BRIAN BARRETT CULTURE Dolly Parton's Meme Exposes Social Media's Masquerade EMMA GREY ELLIS Bloomberg profiles the weird world of Tesla Twitter bears, and the legal wranglings that spooked one off the platform—sort of. Government scientists have questioned whether the Trump administration’s proposed rollback of emissions standards would, as claimed, make US roads safer. Uber experiments with letting some California drivers set their own fares—another strategy to evade the state’s new employee classification law. Waymo says it’s testing self-driving trucks and minivans in Texas and New Mexico. Uber and Lyft: Welcome, finally, to Vancouver. A study finds the shipping and energy industry will have to spend $1 trillion to meet the International Maritime Organization goal of cutting ship emissions by 2050. E-scooter startups grew quickly—and now they’re figuring out how to operate their supply chains. Maybe the Boeing 737 MAX will return to service sooner than Boeing had hoped? A section of San Francisco’s major artery, Market Street, is going private car-free starting next week. Andy Byford, the New York City Transit Authority president once touted as the savior of the subway system, has resigned. In the Rearview Essential stories from WIRED’s canonFrom 2016: Our profile of Cruise, the hot new startup acquired by General Motors.+++2
While You Were Offline: The Internet Does Not Condone Book Murder What kind of sick person slashes apart their novels and posts the deed on Twitter? A knife on top of a book with blood coming out of it PHOTOGRAPH: GETTY IMAGES Technically, because of the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday, this past week was a short one for a lot of folks, work-wise. However, things being what they are, that didn't necessarily mean life was quiet on social media. (The internet never sleeps, amirite?) But what were people talking about? Well, there was news that President Trump was preparing to expand the travel ban. There was also the discovery that Saudi Arabian leader Mohammed bin Salman might have hacked Amazon and Washington Post owner Jeff Bezos' phone, which is all kinds of alarming. Meanwhile, Richmond, Virginia had a pro-gun rally, there’s a new deadly virus that’s made its way to the US, and nerds across the internet are excited about the return of Star Wars: The Clone Wars and the long-awaited launch of Star Trek: Picard. Oh, and this dropped. But what were folks talking about when they weren't distracted by the star-spangled spectacle? Dear friends, you only had to ask. How to Get Away With Book Murder What Happened: It turns out that the internet’s tolerance for violence is significantly lower than you might expect when it comes to books. Yes, books. What Really Happened: We’ve all been there: We’re engrossed in a piece of classic literature and would want to keep reading on the go, but the damn book is just so physically heavy. If only there was some kind of solution to this problem … Alex Christofi  @alex_christofi Yesterday my colleague called me a 'book murderer' because I cut long books in half to make them more portable. Does anyone else do this? Is it just me? View image on Twitter 65.9K 2:16 AM - Jan 21, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 26.4K people are talking about this OK, sure. It’s certainly a bold move, not to mention one that pretty much destroys the prospect of selling the books back to a secondhand store. But, as violent a solution as it may appear, surely the internet understood. lucy @lucymariaturner this is the worst thing i have ever seen in my life https://twitter.com/alex_christofi/status/1219564301029138432 … Alex Christofi  @alex_christofi Yesterday my colleague called me a 'book murderer' because I cut long books in half to make them more portable. Does anyone else do this? Is it just me? View image on Twitter 6:21 AM - Jan 21, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy See lucy's other Tweets Purple Reign @MAFID0N You're sick. https://twitter.com/alex_christofi/status/1219564301029138432 … Alex Christofi  @alex_christofi Yesterday my colleague called me a 'book murderer' because I cut long books in half to make them more portable. Does anyone else do this? Is it just me? View image on Twitter 6:18 AM - Jan 21, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy See Purple Reign's other Tweets Davidson™ @Dahveydson How is this not a crime against humanity? https://twitter.com/alex_christofi/status/1219564301029138432 … Alex Christofi  @alex_christofi Yesterday my colleague called me a 'book murderer' because I cut long books in half to make them more portable. Does anyone else do this? Is it just me? View image on Twitter 3 6:17 AM - Jan 21, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy See Davidson™'s other Tweets Tressie McMillan Cottom  @tressiemcphd Nobody does this. You are a serial killer. I am reporting you to the global police because we haven’t abolished prisons yet and it’s maybe still okay in very limited cases, such as yours because you are a serial killer. https://twitter.com/alex_christofi/status/1219564301029138432 … Alex Christofi  @alex_christofi Yesterday my colleague called me a 'book murderer' because I cut long books in half to make them more portable. Does anyone else do this? Is it just me? View image on Twitter 3,178 6:11 AM - Jan 21, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 425 people are talking about this Herman Miéville @mnurkic Real sick psycho shit going on here https://twitter.com/alex_christofi/status/1219564301029138432 … Alex Christofi  @alex_christofi Yesterday my colleague called me a 'book murderer' because I cut long books in half to make them more portable. Does anyone else do this? Is it just me? View image on Twitter 40 4:01 AM - Jan 21, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy See Herman Miéville's other Tweets Vonny LeClerc  @vonny_bravo I cannot accurately convey how upsetting this is. Don't. Do. This. https://twitter.com/alex_christofi/status/1219564301029138432 … Alex Christofi  @alex_christofi Yesterday my colleague called me a 'book murderer' because I cut long books in half to make them more portable. Does anyone else do this? Is it just me? View image on Twitter 220 4:34 AM - Jan 21, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 49 people are talking about this Of course, the story spread to mainstream media as you’d expect given the social media reaction, with people sharing arguments both for and against the practice. Most Popular SCIENCE An AI Epidemiologist Sent the First Alerts of the Wuhan Virus ERIC NIILER SCIENCE Scientists Predict Wuhan's Virus Outbreak Will Get Much Worse MEGAN MOLTENI SECURITY The Sneaky Simple Malware That Hits Millions of Macs BRIAN BARRETT CULTURE Dolly Parton's Meme Exposes Social Media's Masquerade EMMA GREY ELLIS There was one piece of advice that kept popping up again and again on social media, however. Jamie McKelvie  @McKelvie Ironically if you cut Infinite Jest in half you end up with two Infinite Jests 657 5:14 AM - Jan 21, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 81 people are talking about this No, wait, not that. Vero @wavingtoanimals Get an eReader, son https://twitter.com/alex_christofi/status/1219564301029138432 … Alex Christofi  @alex_christofi Yesterday my colleague called me a 'book murderer' because I cut long books in half to make them more portable. Does anyone else do this? Is it just me? View image on Twitter 3 6:16 AM - Jan 21, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy See Vero's other Tweets sahar @saharxfatima please.... just buy a kindle https://twitter.com/alex_christofi/status/1219564301029138432 … Alex Christofi  @alex_christofi Yesterday my colleague called me a 'book murderer' because I cut long books in half to make them more portable. Does anyone else do this? Is it just me? View image on Twitter 6 6:16 AM - Jan 21, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy See sahar's other Tweets Dayna McAlpine @daynamcalpine_ please for the love of god get a kindle https://twitter.com/alex_christofi/status/1219564301029138432 … Alex Christofi  @alex_christofi Yesterday my colleague called me a 'book murderer' because I cut long books in half to make them more portable. Does anyone else do this? Is it just me? View image on Twitter 133 3:58 AM - Jan 21, 2020 · Ingliston, Scotland Twitter Ads info and privacy 18 people are talking about this Kevin Sebastian  @NoxVoyager If you want someone to gift you an ebook reader, there are better ways to do it. https://twitter.com/alex_christofi/status/1219564301029138432 … Alex Christofi  @alex_christofi Yesterday my colleague called me a 'book murderer' because I cut long books in half to make them more portable. Does anyone else do this? Is it just me? View image on Twitter 3,171 3:36 AM - Jan 21, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 270 people are talking about this Surprisingly, no e-reader company has launched a new ad campaign off the back of this idea just yet. It wasn't so long ago that speedy responses to online fads were what companies did as a default. 2020 truly is a strange new world, it seems. Most Popular SCIENCE An AI Epidemiologist Sent the First Alerts of the Wuhan Virus ERIC NIILER SCIENCE Scientists Predict Wuhan's Virus Outbreak Will Get Much Worse MEGAN MOLTENI SECURITY The Sneaky Simple Malware That Hits Millions of Macs BRIAN BARRETT CULTURE Dolly Parton's Meme Exposes Social Media's Masquerade EMMA GREY ELLIS The Takeaway: Of course, this might just be the start. If we let people chop books in half, then what’s next? PJ Holden  @pauljholden I do the same with really long dvds! https://twitter.com/alex_christofi/status/1219564301029138432 … View image on Twitter Alex Christofi  @alex_christofi Yesterday my colleague called me a 'book murderer' because I cut long books in half to make them more portable. Does anyone else do this? Is it just me? View image on Twitter 5,046 3:43 AM - Jan 21, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 536 people are talking about this President Trump Commemorates Martin Luther King Jr. Day, Sort Of What Happened: Martin Luther King Jr. Day has been an American tradition for almost 40 years, marking the life and career of one of the most respected civil rights leaders in US history. President Trump commemorated the day on Twitter by noting his own accomplishments. What Really Happened: The work week started with Martin Luther King Jr. Day on Monday, offering a chance for folks to reflect on King’s legacy as a civil rights leader and service to his community. How did President Trump choose to mark the occasion? See below. Donald J. Trump  @realDonaldTrump It was exactly three years ago today, January 20, 2017,  that I was sworn into office. So appropriate that today is also MLK jr DAY. African-American Unemployment is the LOWEST in the history of our Country, by far. Also, best Poverty, Youth, and Employment numbers, ever. Great! 201K 11:59 AM - Jan 20, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 65.5K people are talking about this This came after a less self-congratulatory tweet from the White House earlier in the day. The White House  @WhiteHouse "Today, we pause to honor the incredible life and accomplishments of Dr. King, who helped shape the Civil Rights Movement, gave hope to millions experiencing discrimination, and whose enduring memory inspires us to pursue a more just and equal society." — President Trump View image on Twitter 39.8K 7:24 AM - Jan 20, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 14.5K people are talking about this Trump’s son also chimed in to, um, trumpet his father's work. Donald Trump Jr.  @DonaldJTrumpJr MLK spent his life fighting for America’s highest ideal—that God created ALL of us equal. Reflecting on his legacy & looking to the future, I’m so proud of @realDonaldTrump for his commitment to empowering black Americans to live happier, more prosperous lives. Let’s keep going! https://twitter.com/whitehouse/status/1219279605464473601 … The White House  @WhiteHouse "Today, we pause to honor the incredible life and accomplishments of Dr. King, who helped shape the Civil Rights Movement, gave hope to millions experiencing discrimination, and whose enduring memory inspires us to pursue a more just and equal society." — President Trump View image on Twitter 14.2K 8:52 AM - Jan 20, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 5,899 people are talking about this Wait. Donald Trump Jr., Martin Luther King Jr. … Is there something here to work with? Full Frontal  @FullFrontalSamB Official ranking of juniors: 1. MLK Jr. .... .... .... 7,402,523. Donald Trump Jr. https://twitter.com/DonaldJTrumpJr/status/1219301752534642694 … Donald Trump Jr.+++2
@DonaldJTrumpJr MLK spent his life fighting for America’s highest ideal—that God created ALL of us equal. Reflecting on his legacy & looking to the future, I’m so proud of @realDonaldTrump for his commitment to empowering black Americans to live happier, more prosperous lives. Let’s keep going! https://twitter.com/whitehouse/status/1219279605464473601 … 1,885 4:12 PM - Jan 20, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 215 people are talking about this Apparently not. Meanwhile, people were noticing that the president didn’t seem to be planning anything beyond tweets to mark the day, which was not only a break with tradition, it was also arguably offensive to King’s memory and what he represented. But surely there was something on Trump’s schedule to honor Dr. King. Geoff Bennett  @GeoffRBennett According to the White House schedule, President Trump has nothing on his public schedule to honor MLK Day. The White House pool (which covers and travels with him) isn't called to arrive until 3PM ET, and he leaves at 6:15PM for Davos. 7,258 6:10 AM - Jan 20, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 4,797 people are talking about this As it turned out, he did make an appearance to recognize what was happening, even if the hasty—and, likely, hastily scheduled—visit turned out to be far from ideal. Kathryn Watson  @kathrynw5 Trump and Pence made a very trip to the MLK memorial, a stop that wasn’t on his public schedule today. Stood in front of the statue for less than a minute. View image on Twitter 267 1:36 PM - Jan 20, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 289 people are talking about this Ben Rhodes  @brhodes The offensive thing to MLK’s legacy isn’t how Trump acts at an event we all know he doesn’t want to be at, it’s the fact of his presidency. https://twitter.com/ddale8/status/1219376842622361600 … Daniel Dale  @ddale8 Trump stood for about 30 seconds at the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial in Washington this afternoon. He didn't say anything. He got some cheers, a "USA" chant and some boos from people nearby. 1,542 3:36 PM - Jan 20, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 294 people are talking about this Aaron Rupar  @atrupar I can hold my breath for longer than Trump spent at the MLK monument today https://twitter.com/kaitlancollins/status/1219376035915075584 … Kaitlan Collins  @kaitlancollins President Trump and Vice President Pence just made an unannounced trip to the Martin Luther King Jr. memorial in Washington. They stood in front of it for approximately 30 seconds with their heads bowed before turning and leaving without making remarks. 1,494 3:30 PM - Jan 20, 2020 · Washington, DC Twitter Ads info and privacy 391 people are talking about this If only there was someone who wasn’t related to the president who wanted to speak out in his favor. Geoff Bennett  @GeoffRBennett · Jan 20, 2020 I asked White House senior adviser Kellyanne Conway how Trump is observing King Day. Conway said, "Well, I can tell you that the president is preparing for Davos" and she then linked Trump's impeachment to the kinds of injustice that Dr. King fought against. Geoff Bennett  @GeoffRBennett Here’s the full quote: View image on Twitter 2,656 9:31 AM - Jan 20, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 2,263 people are talking about this Christopher Peters 🚀 @statwonk There's not much more ironic and dispicable than Kellyanne Conway "speaking for" MLK Jr. and attempting to appropriate his role in the American civil Rights movement. https://twitter.com/juliewilcoxwx/status/1219347365712289798 … Julie Wilcox WX  @JulieWilcoxWX Kellyanne Conway, who is Communications Director for  POTUS. Arguably the most important communications job in the country. When asked about MLK Jr Day:  Impeachment wasn't in Dr. King's vision. The end where she lobs in it's her birthday is what makes it art. https://twitter.com/GeoffRBennett/status/1219311527213268992 … 7 1:19 PM - Jan 20, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy See Christopher Peters 🚀's other Tweets David Priess  @DavidPriess There are many respectful ways to honor MLK’s legacy on this day, including public service, talking to kids about his ethical principles, and quoting his powerful words to inspire others to improve themselves and lift up others. This is not one of them.https://www.thedailybeast.com/kellyanne-conway-martin-luther-king-jr-would-be-against-trump-impeachment … Kellyanne Conway: Martin Luther King Jr. Would Be Against Trump Impeachment The top Trump aide made the comments when asked how the president planned to observe the federal holiday. thedailybeast.com 151 12:38 PM - Jan 20, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 56 people are talking about this Oh, Kellyanne Conway. You remain the gift that keeps giving, especially when the thing being given turns out to be spin. Most Popular SCIENCE An AI Epidemiologist Sent the First Alerts of the Wuhan Virus ERIC NIILER SCIENCE Scientists Predict Wuhan's Virus Outbreak Will Get Much Worse MEGAN MOLTENI SECURITY The Sneaky Simple Malware That Hits Millions of Macs BRIAN BARRETT CULTURE Dolly Parton's Meme Exposes Social Media's Masquerade EMMA GREY ELLIS The Takeaway: If only there was some way to accurately summarize the president’s attitude towards Martin Luther King. If only. Kurt Eichenwald  @kurteichenwald Trump: "MLK Jr. day....me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me AND me!"View image on Twitter 946 2:48 PM - Jan 20, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 253 people are talking about this The Impeachment Trial Begins What Happened: It’s on—and by “it” we mean the impeachment trial of President Trump. The Senate began the process last week, proving that justice often moves really, really slowly. What Really Happened: Welp, the Senate is finally getting around to its trial of President Donald Trump. It’s been a long time coming. The opening day of the trial on Tuesday lasted almost 13 hours, and that was before it got down to the nitty-gritty. Instead, those hours were spent discussing the rules and setting up what was to come. Oh, and having some grandstanding that was certainly intended to be impressive from the president’s defense team, even if the execution was somewhat lacking. Manu Raju  @mkraju Was sittting in the chamber when Sekulow stared at Schiff and said: “We’re talking about the impeachment of a president of the United States and the managers are complaining about lawyer lawsuits?” Schiff glared back; he later said he didn’t know what Sekulow was talking about 4,951 3:46 PM - Jan 21, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 1,150 people are talking about this Renato Mariotti  @renato_mariotti Sekulow is trying to conflate Obama's assertions of privilege with Trump's categorical stonewalling of the impeachment inquiry without asserting privilege. Those are two very different things. 3,828 11:23 AM - Jan 21, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 1,061 people are talking about this Andrew Rudalevige @rudalev The executive privilege cases Sekulow is talking about are not relevant to an impeachment trial. The Senate can decide what privilege applies. Plus, in the case he's citing, the privilege may be overcome... 142 3:15 PM - Jan 21, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 52 people are talking about this Kyle Cheney  @kyledcheney · Jan 21, 2020 NEW: The White House's impeachment team sharply contradicted the president's own legal position in the MCGAHN case, which could have short-term impeachment repercussions. A look at the wholesale reversal w/ @AndrewDesideriohttps://www.politico.com/news/2020/01/21/trumps-impeachment-legal-team-doj-101720 … Trump’s impeachment team embraces defense that his DOJ rejected The issue could affect ongoing oversight investigations. politico.com Kyle Cheney  @kyledcheney SEKULOW today: "The president’s opponents, in their rush to impeach, have refused to wait for judicial review."DOJ lawyer 3 weeks ago: Allowing for judicial review "risks politicizing the court and undermining public confidence in the court.”https://www.politico.com/news/2020/01/21/trumps-impeachment-legal-team-doj-101720 … Trump’s impeachment team embraces defense that his DOJ rejected The issue could affect ongoing oversight investigations. politico.com 1,777 3:36 PM - Jan 21, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 1,097 people are talking about this Craig Caplan  @CraigCaplan Sekulow concludes: "This all supposedly started because of a whistleblower. Where is that whistleblower?"View image on Twitter 731 4:13 PM - Jan 21, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 256 people are talking about this Seth Abramson  @SethAbramson · Jan 21, 2020 As a matter of courtroom ethics—having never faced even a single professional conduct complaint in the whole of my legal career—I'd feel *prohibitively* uncomfortable making *any* of the many misleading and in some cases outright false representations Trump's lawyers are making. Seth Abramson  @SethAbramson Sekulow's argument, by the way, is that Congressional oversight of the executive branch should *end*. Not *end* for today, not *end* for the next year, not *end* for Trump's presidency, but end *forever*. Trump is essentially saying Congress should be disbanded so he can survive. 1,915 3:12 PM - Jan 21, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 827 people are talking about this Daniel Dale  @ddale8 Sekulow said earlier, "33 days -- 33 days, they held onto those impeachment articles -- 33 days. It was such a rush of national security that -- impeach this president before Christmas that they then held them for 33 days."It was 28 days. 19.3K 3:04 PM - Jan 21, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 4,124 people are talking about this https://twitter.com/bdlatt/status/1219710963622039552 It didn’t just fail to play to the outside world, it was also rebutted quite capably—if surprisingly—by one of the impeachment managers from the House of Representatives. PBS NewsHour  @NewsHour "That is why we are here Mr. Sekulow. If you don't know, now you know."— Rep. Jeffries lays out the Democrats' reasons for impeachment, in response to Jay Sekulow's question as to why they are there. #ImpeachmentPBS Embedded video 768 6:57 PM - Jan 21, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 301 people are talking about this If that last line sounded familiar, it should have. Mugiwara🇰🇳 @thatkidphilly Quoting biggie on the Senate floor gon definitely go down in black history https://twitter.com/Canadian_Canuk/status/1219833013934206976 … minpin_mom @Canadian_Canuk #ImpeachmentHearings #GOPCoverup - “if you don’t know NOW You Know!!!!!!! Embedded video 2 9:21 PM - Jan 21, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy See Mugiwara🇰🇳's other Tweets Given how late the rules for the trial were unveiled by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, it was hardly a surprise that there were a lot of proposed amendments to be worked through before business got started. Eleven of them, in fact. Brian Beutler  @brianbeutler Every Republican senator just voted to block key document subpoenas, so that the trial will begin with those documents still concealed. Cover up step one is complete. 7,126 1:42 PM - Jan 21, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 2,668 people are talking about this Travis Tucker @OnyxRevelation Its crazy that Senate Republicans complain about no due process but the TABLE an amendment to subpoena White House evidence....... absolute farce #ImpeachmentTrial 13 1:45 PM - Jan 21, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy See Travis Tucker's other Tweets Manu Raju  @mkraju Senate kills fourth Democratic amendment, 53-47, another party-line vote. The Mulvaney subpoena the latest to be rejected 2,337 6:28 PM - Jan 21, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 1,367 people are talking about this Kyle Griffin  @kylegriffin1 The Senate has killed the seventh Schumer proposed amendment, which had to do with rules on how evidence is handled during the trial. The amendment died on a party line 53-47 vote. 1,119 9:15 PM - Jan 21, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 550 people are talking about this Senator Chris Van Hollen  @ChrisVanHollen GOP senators just voted against my amendment to ensure that the Chief Justice would serve the same role in the Senate impeachment trial as a judge in any other American trial—to support efforts to get to the truth. 655 10:49 PM - Jan 21, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 369 people are talking about this southpaw @nycsouthpaw Amendment #11 fails, like the 10 amendments before it. Final passage on McConnell’s rules happening now. I was hoping to understand why they don’t need a 2/3 vote to depart from the standing Senate rules for an impeachment trial, but I’m still in the dark. 281 10:44 PM - Jan 21, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 105 people are talking about this If this seemed like a trend, well … it was. That seems to be how party loyalty works these days. Tim Hanrahan  @TimJHanrahan Votes on tabling amendments so far: 1: 53-47 2: 53-47 3: 53-47 4: 53-47 5: 53-47 6: 53-47 7: 53-47 8: 53-47 9: 53-47 10: 52-48* 11: TK *Collins voted with Democratshttps://www.wsj.com/livecoverage/trump-impeachment-trial/card/1579674988 … Collins Backs One Amendment -- but It Still Fails Sen. Susan Collins (R., Maine) backed Democrats' amendment to allow more time for response to filings. But the amendment was still defeated 52-48. Now, De wsj.com 44 10:39 PM - Jan 21, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 34 people are talking about this Ali Velshi  @AliVelshi Sen. Susan Collins of Maine cast the first vote to break with party lines, in the 10th amendment to the rules of the day, after 1am Weds. It was the first vote to be 52-48, rather than 53-47 3,339 10:34 PM - Jan 21, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 1,372 people are talking about this Kamala Harris  @KamalaHarris Senate Republicans rejected every single amendment to allow firsthand witnesses and documents in Trump’s impeachment trial. Every single amendment. It’s clear they don’t want a trial—they want a cover-up. 66.5K 7:11 AM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 18.7K people are talking about this The Washington Post  @washingtonpost Sen. Schumer after the Senate rejected his amendment to subpoena Ukraine probe documents: “We hear a lot of arguments from the president’s counsel. None of them directly address why there shouldn’t be witnesses and documents." pic.twitter.com/QESluUf4HZ https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/impeachment-trial-live-updates/2020/1/21/a52d9a74-3c3c-11ea-b90d-5652806c3b3a_story.html?utm_campaign=wp_main&utm_medium=social&utm_source=twitter … Embedded video 530 2:32 PM - Jan 21, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 237 people are talking about this Eventually, at an impressively late 1:50 AM, the rules were passed by the Senate. Craig Caplan  @CraigCaplan 53-47: Senate adopts impeachment trial rules proposed by Senator McConnell on party line vote at 1:50am ET early Wednesday morning. View image on Twitter 14 10:52 PM - Jan 21, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 15 people are talking about this After the marathon session on Tuesday, the world struggled to catch up, which may not have been the best sign for the way the rest of the trial was about to go for the Republicans. Daniel Dale  @ddale8 No, Republicans weren't banned from the SCIF. No, Trump's lawyer wasn't banned from Judiciary. No, Democrats didn't take "33 days" to transmit the articles. My fact check of false claims Trump's lawyers made yesterday on the Senate floor: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/22/politics/trump-lawyers-impeachment-false-claims-scif/index.html … Trump lawyers make at least three false claims during impeachment arguments It's not true that Republicans weren't allowed into the closed-door hearings, that the Judiciary Committee denied Trump a lawyer, or that House Democrats took "33 days" to send the Senate the... cnn.com 20.4K 9:34 AM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 10.3K people are talking about this Kyle Griffin  @kylegriffin1 George Conway tells CNN that Pat Cipollone would be held in contempt if he behaved like he did in the Senate in a courtroom. "If you did that in a courtroom, you'd verge on being held in contempt. The judge would ask the jury to leave the room and the judge would ream you out."11.4K 9:40 AM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 3,298 people are talking about this Well, that’s not good for those defending the president, but at least he wasn't going on television and saying something regrettable. Rep. +++2
Val Demings  @RepValDemings The second article of impeachment was for obstruction of Congress: covering up witnesses and documents from the American people. This morning the President not only confessed to it, he bragged about it: "Honestly, we have all the material. They don't have the material."Embedded video 101K 8:17 AM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 48.9K people are talking about this David Cicilline  @davidcicilline A new Trump confession. https://twitter.com/repvaldemings/status/1220017702011535364 … Rep. Val Demings  @RepValDemings The second article of impeachment was for obstruction of Congress: covering up witnesses and documents from the American people. This morning the President not only confessed to it, he bragged about it: "Honestly, we have all the material. They don't have the material."Embedded video 4,460 8:23 AM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 1,405 people are talking about this …Oh. Following that surreal, lengthy, partisan first day, arguments began on Wednesday and have continued ever since. Democratic Rep. Adam Schiff impressed many by calmly laying out the simple, damning facts and dropping in some Alexander Hamilton, but the Republicans were ready for him. Kind of. Philip Bump  @pbump The Trump War Room account offered a thread of responses to the Democrats' Ukraine evidence. Every tweet in the thread was wrong or misleading. https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2020/01/22/house-democrats-lay-out-their-case-trumps-campaign-white-house-offer-different-narrative/ … Analysis | As House Democrats lay out their case, Trump’s campaign and White House offer a differ... That narrative is often misleading. washingtonpost.com 2,560 8:21 PM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 1,464 people are talking about this We'd say “expect this one to run and run,” but it turns out Republicans want to wrap it up fast. Most Popular SCIENCE An AI Epidemiologist Sent the First Alerts of the Wuhan Virus ERIC NIILER SCIENCE Scientists Predict Wuhan's Virus Outbreak Will Get Much Worse MEGAN MOLTENI SECURITY The Sneaky Simple Malware That Hits Millions of Macs BRIAN BARRETT CULTURE Dolly Parton's Meme Exposes Social Media's Masquerade EMMA GREY ELLIS The Takeaway: Still, surely everyone present is taking this as seriously as the genuinely historic event calls for, right? Michael McAuliff  @mmcauliff Just counted 21 empty seats on the GOP side of the Senate, 2 on the Dem side, a couple hours into Schiff's presentation. Some are just stretching their legs, but most are not in the chamber. Some of them have been out of there for a while. 26.5K 12:20 PM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 14.1K people are talking about this Gritty, No! What Happened: That heroes will ultimately disappoint the people who admire them is something that, by now, our cynical world has come to expect. But even bearing that in mind, “beating up a 13-year-old” feels like it’s really going that extra distance in its desire to betray fandom. (That is, if said beat-down actually happened.) What Really Happened: You know, it’s been a while since we checked in with Gritty. Remember Gritty, the beloved NHL mascot for the Philadelphia Flyers who was taken into the internet’s hearts almost immediately after his debut in 2018? Of course you do. You love Gritty. Everyone loves Gritty. Gritty can do no wrong in anyone’s eyes. CBS Philly  @CBSPhilly #BREAKING: Philadelphia police are investigating a claim that Flyers mascot Gritty physically assaulted a teen boy during a photo shoot. https://cbsloc.al/38pVNx8 Philadelphia Police Investigating Claim Flyers Mascot Gritty Physically Assaulted Teen Boy During... Police say the "investigation is active and on-going with South Detectives Division."philadelphia.cbslocal.com 653 11:33 AM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 463 people are talking about this Maybe apart from that. But perhaps it wasn’t as bad as it sounds? 𝐄𝐱𝐚𝐯𝐢𝐞𝐫 𝐏𝐨𝐩𝐞  @exavierpope “In Greenwell’s telling, Brandon playfully patted the mascot on the head after the photo was taken. As Brandon walked away, Gritty got out of his chair, ‘took a running start,’ and ‘punched my son as hard as he could,’ Greenwell said” - Gritty getting grimy https://twitter.com/PhillyInquirer/status/1220060476958224388 … The Philadelphia Inquirer  @PhillyInquirer A father took his son to a meet and greet event in November, where he claims Gritty punched his son in the back. https://trib.al/qNbxCcq 1 12:31 PM - Jan 22, 2020 · Chicago, IL Twitter Ads info and privacy See 𝐄𝐱𝐚𝐯𝐢𝐞𝐫 𝐏𝐨𝐩𝐞's other Tweets The news quickly went viral, because it’s Gritty. It also caught the attention of social media, because of course it did. Matt @PanasonicDX4500 Getting punched by Gritty is the Philadelphia equivalent of receiving the Key to the City. 140 11:51 AM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 51 people are talking about this audrey bowler @aud_bowler nobody should be allowed to punch kids, but at the same time................. gritty should be allowed to punch kids 2,189 12:12 PM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 282 people are talking about this ben @_benby When they said Gritty punched a kid I thought we were talking about a 4 year old or something but the kid was 13? Like, bruh, welcome to the real world. Sometimes your nightmares come to life in the form of an orange monster and attack you, get over it 1,461 12:34 PM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 235 people are talking about this Jellicle Ash Crossan  @AshCrossan I want to be punched in the head by gritty 107 12:54 PM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 20 people are talking about this Connor Stone @connorstonehere Let me get this straight. You think Gritty, one of the wealthiest and most powerful mascots in the world, is secretly a vigilante, who spends his nights beating children to a pulp with his bare hands, and your plan is to blackmail this person? Embedded video 389 1:00 PM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 69 people are talking about this Given the sheer amount of love Gritty has earned over the past couple years, some people were convinced that the mascot not only wasn’t at fault, but that he simply could never be at fault. 𝐜𝐬𝐞𝐧𝐠𝐞 @konecnies if gritty ever punches me, do NOT prosecute him. he caught ME slipping. that is on ME. 18.5K 12:11 PM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 3,683 people are talking about this Meanwhile, for others, reality was intruding in a way that, really, just feels a little bit rude, to be honest. Charlie O'Connor  @charlieo_conn I find it utterly bizarre that the Gritty story is written as if the character of Gritty is a sentient being that can be charged and arrested with a crime and not a dude in a costume with an actual name. 12.4K 12:35 PM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 1,695 people are talking about this But what of, you know, the actual facts of the case? Few, it seemed, were actually convinced—including those whose job it would be to actually take notice of these kinds of things. Adam Gretz @AGretz · Jan 22, 2020 On one hand, Gritty is pretty aggressive by mascot standards and I always wondered if they'd fly too close to the sun with it. So it's possible On the other hand, this guy literally said he wanted something special for his kid and his first complaint was that the picture sucked. Pete Blackburn  @PeteBlackburn there's absolutely no way Gritty took a running start and hammered a kid in the back without a single person around being like "uh, what the fuck?!"  and immediately going into damage control 191 12:00 PM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 30 people are talking about this Scott T. @NHLFlyera Lol this weirdo made this his profile picture weeks after Gritty supposedly assaulted his son. Gtfo View image on Twitter 1,732 12:09 PM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 345 people are talking about this Brandon J. Sommermann @B_Sommermann In his response, "Mr. Greenwell suggested Flyers show his son on the giant scoreboard or let him into locker room to meet players & get autographs". Find that kind of a shocking response from a concerned father whose son was supposedly injured by Gritty. #Flyers #NowOrNever https://twitter.com/davegisaac/status/1220089745004486656 … Dave Isaac  @davegisaac Statement from #Flyers regarding an allegation that Gritty punched a 13-year-old boy in the head: “We took Mr. Greenwell’s allegations seriously and conducted a thorough investigation that found nothing to support this claim.” 12 1:09 PM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy See Brandon J. Sommermann's other Tweets The case is still underway, so expect more Gritty updates in the future. Most Popular SCIENCE An AI Epidemiologist Sent the First Alerts of the Wuhan Virus ERIC NIILER SCIENCE Scientists Predict Wuhan's Virus Outbreak Will Get Much Worse MEGAN MOLTENI SECURITY The Sneaky Simple Malware That Hits Millions of Macs BRIAN BARRETT CULTURE Dolly Parton's Meme Exposes Social Media's Masquerade EMMA GREY ELLIS The Takeaway: Perhaps the greatest part of this entire story might be the shared belief that Gritty is somehow more than just a guy in a suit. What, exactly, do people know that we don’t? The Notorious S.E.B. @bigseb31213 · Jan 22, 2020 Replying to @bigseb31213 I found video footage, holy shit Embedded video The Notorious S.E.B. @bigseb31213 I love how this article persists in treating Gritty as the mascot and not a guy in the suit. Like Gritty's a zoo animal "The company claimed it conducted an investigation that included interviews with Gritty, and “Gritty’s handler,” but couldn’t verify Greenwell’s account"12:41 PM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy See The Notorious S.E.B.'s other Tweets The Grim Reaper Gets Salty What Happened: Death is a simple fact of life, but that doesn’t mean we can’t be emotionally devastated by [checks notes] the demise of an advertising mascot ahead of the inevitable high-profile relaunch. Wait, what? What Really Happened: Midweek, there was an unexpected loss in the world of pop culture. (No, not the one you’re thinking of.) +++2
The Estate of Mr. Peanut  @MrPeanut It is with heavy hearts that we confirm that Mr. Peanut has died at 104. In the ultimate selfless act, he sacrificed himself to save his friends when they needed him most. Please pay your respects with #RIPeanut View image on Twitter 137K 8:00 AM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 43.5K people are talking about this The Estate of Mr. Peanut  @MrPeanut We’re devastated to confirm that Mr. Peanut is gone. He died doing what he did best – having people’s backs when they needed him most. #RIPeanut Embedded video 53K 9:08 AM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 16K people are talking about this The sheer surreally of the announcement brought social media to a standstill as people couldn’t help but pay their respects—in a sense. K. Thor Jensen  @kthorjensen Mr. Peanut died of a heart attack while we were having the best sex of his life. The media will not report this fact. 99 8:56 AM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 20 people are talking about this The Sheetz Freak of the Week @ClaytonDeth Mr Peanut is joining Paul Walker, Brian Family Guy, Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi, John McCain, and the Bud Knight for one hell of a jam session 26 9:31 AM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy See The Sheetz Freak of the Week's other Tweets demi adejuyigbe  @electrolemon holy shit... we were just hanging out yesterday... drinkin beers, laughin at memes, talkin about what legumes we’d wanna smash... please tell ur friends u love them. u never kno when they’re gonna go  https://twitter.com/mrpeanut/status/1220013408180895745 … The Estate of Mr. Peanut  @MrPeanut It is with heavy hearts that we confirm that Mr. Peanut has died at 104. In the ultimate selfless act, he sacrificed himself to save his friends when they needed him most. Please pay your respects with #RIPeanut View image on Twitter 3,371 9:47 AM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 186 people are talking about this jim, @urvillageidiot i was just hanging out with Mr. Peanut. The last thing he said to me was “they are going to kill me Jim. All for some dumb ad campaign. Don’t let them do this to me” and i just... laughed in his face. we were so drunk at the time. Jesus Christ. https://twitter.com/MrPeanut/status/1220013408180895745 … The Estate of Mr. Peanut  @MrPeanut It is with heavy hearts that we confirm that Mr. Peanut has died at 104. In the ultimate selfless act, he sacrificed himself to save his friends when they needed him most. Please pay your respects with #RIPeanut View image on Twitter 2,516 8:57 AM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 372 people are talking about this Quinton Reviews  @Q_Review Mr Peanut represented the elite. the 1%. He became rich by selling the bodies of his brothers. And now that the life has drained from his body, I can complete my promise to eat the rich. 6,071 9:43 AM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 1,167 people are talking about this As the story started to appear in mainstream media—it wasn’t even a slow news day, and yet it happened nonetheless; what is this world we’re living in?—the subject had become Twitter’s top trend, with two different hashtags topping charts: #RIPeanut and #RIPMrPeanut. No, really. This actually happened. Beta's Inferno @Betas_Inferno Gone but not forgotten #RIPeanut View image on Twitter 926 10:02 AM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 157 people are talking about this ben mekler  @benmekler my mom shares her memories of mr. peanut #RIPeanut #MrPeanutDidntKillHimself https://twitter.com/berman_sally/status/1220075637869883392 … Sally Mekler Berman @berman_sally Replying to @benmekler Oh well then I have a memory of Mr. peanut I met him when I was about four years old on the boardwalk at Atlantic City New Jersey he went to hold my hand and a bit his finger really hard and ran away with grandma and grandpa.We never looked back 14 12:39 PM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy See ben mekler's other Tweets نورجہاں پلّا (Pup Noor Jahan) @PupNoorJahan I shall not mourn the death of Mr. Peanut. A capitalist who feeds his own kind to the machine in order to increase profits is exactly the kind of person who should be yeeted into an explosion #RIPMrPeanut 5,437 10:29 AM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 1,119 people are talking about this Bobby Moriarty @bogeyingbob Sad to hear about the passing of @MrPeanut While I have been deathly allergic to him since I was 2 years old I have always admired his work ethic and respected his craft from afar. My thoughts and prayers are with him and his family at this time. #RIPMrPeanut 7 11:31 AM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy See Bobby Moriarty's other Tweets It didn’t escape everyone’s notice that Mr. Peanut’s demise happened on the same day as Terry Jones, with the latter having the benefit of … well, actually being real. Glen Weldon  @ghweldon Terry Jones was a comedy legend; Mr. Peanut was an affected, social-climbing legume who threw on some spats and became a corporate shill. He was the Tom Ripley of nutmeats, and his death should pass unremarked, especially today. Don't get it twisted, news editors. 143 9:28 AM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 20 people are talking about this Still Here, Weebs⭐️ @renfamous Imagine being the Kraft Heinz ad exec who spent the last six months praying nobody famous would die on January 22nd so they could off Mr. Peanut without looking like ghouls only to see that Terry Jones died today. And then saying "fuck it, do the tweet". 543 9:39 AM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 121 people are talking about this With the world being what it is, it's no surprise that people immediately started thinking about who’d step in to take his place. Victoria Macavity  @vqnerdballs what i wanna know is, how long after the death of mr. peanut can we expect the appearances of cyborg peanut, the eradicator peanut, a cloned peanut-boy, and a guy in a mechanized peanut suit #RIPeanut https://twitter.com/MrPeanut/status/1220013408180895745 … The Estate of Mr. Peanut  @MrPeanut It is with heavy hearts that we confirm that Mr. Peanut has died at 104. In the ultimate selfless act, he sacrificed himself to save his friends when they needed him most. Please pay your respects with #RIPeanut View image on Twitter 44 8:57 AM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy See Victoria Macavity's other Tweets Abraham Riesman@abrahamjoseph · Jan 22, 2020 Lol what if they don’t debut a new Mr. Peanut and this is the entire marketing campaign, just getting us to tweet grim jokes about their mascot Lux  Alptraum — CATS (2019) SPOILERS @LuxAlptraum They won’t debut a new Mr Peanut, they’ll debut a *Mx* Peanut 4 9:27 AM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy See Lux  Alptraum — CATS (2019) SPOILERS's other Tweets And for those wondering when we’ll get to the punchline of this particular joke, we'd just like to remind everyone that the Super Bowl, which loves stunt ads like Paddington loved marmalade, is just weeks away. Rumors of Mr. Peanut’s demise have been greatly exaggerated, we think, and not just because he’s a cartoon mascot of a snack brand and therefore not even alive in the first place. The Takeaway: At least some people are happy to take notice of how genuinely weird this whole thing actually is. Brian “Box” Brown  @boxbrown I don’t like to take part in advertising campaigns but it’s funny that they’re telling us to eat the mascot’s corpse 8 9:50 AM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy See Brian “Box” Brown's other Tweets+++2
Angry Nerd: You're All Wrong About the Worst Day of the Week You don't like Mondays? At least they offer hope—hope that withers and dies in the parched wasteland of wretched Tuesday. illustration of a clock with many numbers on it ILLUSTRATION: STORYTK Only sad sacks and lunaediesophobes think Monday is the worst day of the week. The real life-ruiner is Tuesday. Existentially, it's diseased. The parched wasteland of the planetary hours, it stretches on and on, and in its stinking heat the precious seedlings of Monday's hopes wither and perish. (Wednesday offers meager redemption, unless you count the freedom to say “hump” with impunity. Which—what of it?—I do.) Yet it's Friday that Americans spend their vacation days on. Friday that half-caring employers declare half days. Friday that Microsoft's Japanese division experimentally eliminated from the workweek for one month in summer 2019, resulting in a 39.9 percent spike in labor productivity, the panegyric gyrations of tech journalists everywhere, and—I suspect—a cascade of Silicon Valley copycats clamoring to follow suit. This is lunacy on a level with lunaediesophobia. Look around your joyless open-plan office space on a Friday afternoon. Many people are, in fact, smiling. That's because freedom beckons. It's a proprietary species of corporate chicanery that says Friday needs saving. It doesn't. Tuesday does. Imagine it: a weekend followed by a Monday followed by a little more weekend, noncontiguously. Where's Elon Musk when I need him? That guy should be treating with sabbatical sacrality the weekday associated with the god of Mars, his favorite planet. He could—the most Muskian disruption imaginable—call for its official designation as the New Day of Rest. For the love of Tíw, Elon, free Tuesday. Terraform it from red hellscape into livable oasis, and the surge in happiness and innovation might just get us to Mars.+++2
Snakes?! The Slippery Truth of a Flawed Wuhan Virus Theory One paper advanced a controversial theory about the disease's origin. Other scientists aren't biting. people with masks on PHOTOGRAPH: XIAOLU CHU/GETTY IMAGES Sharing data during an outbreak is vital for public health. But it can also lead to sensational, and even spurious, research, like a controversial new paper claiming that people probably picked up a novel coronavirus from snakes. You’ve read your last complimentary article this month. Subscribe Now. If you’re already a subscriber sign in. Megan Molteni is a staff writer at WIRED, covering biotechnology, public health, and genetic privacy. Previously, she freelanced as a reporter, audio producer, and fact-checker. Her work has appeared in Popular Science, Discover, Undark, Nautilus, and Aeon. She studied biology and ultimate frisbee at Carleton College and has a graduate... Read more STAFF WRITER Featured Video Doctor Debunks Common Medical Myths Medical doctor Seema Yasmin helps debunk (and confirm!) some common myths about medicine and health. Does your heart really skip a beat when you sneeze? Is it safe to eat genetically modified foods? Is hand sanitizer the best way to clean your hands? Dr. Seema Yasmin is the Director at the Stanford Center for Health Communication and a clinical assistant professor at Stanford Medical School. Her forthcoming books include Debunked! and Muslim Women Are Everything, out April 2020.+++2
Everything you need to know about the new coronavirus from China Stay alert, but don’t panic yet By Nicole Wetsman  Jan 23, 2020, 12:39pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options HONG KONG-HEALTH-VIRUS Photo by VIVEK PRAKASH/AFP via Getty Images Public health experts around the globe are scrambling to understand, track, and contain a new virus that appeared in Wuhan, China at the start of December. You can see where and how many cases have been reported in this map created by US researchers. So far, there have been over 2,000 confirmed cases and 56 deaths. The majority of the illnesses are in China, but cases have been reported in South Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Thailand, Macau, Hong Kong, Australia, Singapore, Vietnam, France, and the US. As this important story continues to unfold, The Verge will update this page with all the latest news and analysis. Our hope is to answer all your questions as people work to understand this virus and contain its spread. Table of contents Where did the virus come from? So is this the same as SARS? China lied to the WHO about SARS. Are they lying about this, too? How dangerous is this new virus? I’ve been coughing. Do I have this virus? How can I protect myself? Should I cancel my trip to China? How is China trying to stop the virus? How at risk is the United States? Where did the virus come from? At the end of December, public health officials from China informed the World Health Organization that they had a problem: an unknown, new virus was causing pneumonia-like illness in the city of Wuhan. They quickly determined that it was a coronavirus, and that it was rapidly spreading through and outside of Wuhan. Concern In China As Mystery Virus Spreads Photo by Kevin Frayer/Getty Images Coronaviruses are common in animals of all kinds, and sometimes can evolve into forms that can infect humans. Since the start of the century, two other coronaviruses have jumped to humans, causing the SARS outbreak in 2002 and the MERS outbreak in 2012. Scientists think this new virus first became capable of jumping to humans at the beginning of December. It appears to have first infected people at a seafood market in Wuhan, and spread from there. The type of animal the virus originated from is not clear. One team of researchers in China published a report arguing that it came from snakes, based on the genetic code of the virus. However, scientists are very skeptical of that conclusion. Another analysis found that the genetic sequence of the new virus is 96 percent identical to one coronavirus found in bats. Both SARS and MERS originated in bats. So is this the same as SARS? The new virus isn’t SARS, although that also began in China. Because it comes from the same viral family as SARS, it has some similarities, but it’s an entirely new virus. However, the commonalities mean scientists and public health officials can use what they’ve learned from the past outbreak to try to stop this one. China lied to the WHO about SARS. Are they lying about this, too? During the SARS outbreak, Chinese officials attempted to conceal cases from WHO inspectors and limited information, both internally and externally. This time, officials quickly reported the outbreak of the new virus to the WHO, which praised their quick response and transparency in a press conference. But critics and Chinese citizens are skeptical: there are concerns that Chinese officials are undercounting the number of illnesses, and are classifying deaths that might have been from the virus as being from pneumonia. Wuhan police also investigated citizens for spreading what it called rumors online a few weeks ago. (It’s important to note that China isn’t the only country known for concealing the extent of public health problems. In the US, for example, dozens of cities have concealed the amount of lead in their public water supply.) How dangerous is this new virus? Right now, no one knows. Symptoms in infected people have ranged from mild to severe. Around a quarter of confirmed cases are severe, according to the WHO. So far, the fatality rate is around 3 percent, though that could change as the outbreak progresses. The fatality rate for SARS was about 14 to 15 percent. Most fatalities in this outbreak have been in older people who have underlying health issues, like heart disease, hypertension, and diabetes. (That’s the same demographic who is most at risk of dying from illnesses like the flu.) We also don’t know how rapidly or easily the virus can spread from person to person. Early evidence suggested that the virus has only been passed from a sick person to their close family members or health workers. That’s a sign that — like other coronaviruses — it can only jump between people who are in very close contact with each other, and probably spreads when an infected person sneezes or coughs. But the WHO reported on January 23 that there have been sustained chains of people passing the virus along for at least four generations: one person got sick (probably from an animal), passed the virus to another person, who passed it to another person. The WHO says that researchers think each sick person will go on to infect between 1.4 and 2.5 additional people, though that’s only a preliminary estimate. Those numbers are called the virus’s R0 (pronounced ‘r-naught’) The R0 is the mathematical representation of how well an infection can spread — the higher the number, the faster it spreads. For comparison, the R0 for SARS was between 2 and 5. Quarantines and other actions taken to control outbreaks of a virus can bring down the number of people a sick person infects. Once that’s taken into account researchers can report the effective reproduction number, or the Rt. The goal is to push the Rt below 1, so sick people don’t infect others and the disease stops spreading. It takes information about the severity and the transmissibility to determine how “bad” an illness can be. Epidemiologists often use this tool to assess new flus, for example, and guide decision-making: Image: Centers for Disease Control If an illness isn’t very severe (and kills only a small percentage of people), but it’s highly transmissible, it can still cause devastating effects — if something affects millions, the small percentage it kills will still be a high number of fatalities. I’ve been coughing. Do I have this virus? If you haven’t recently been to Wuhan, China or been in close contact with someone who is sick and has recently been to Wuhan, China, it’s very unlikely you have this virus. So far, the vast majority of cases have been in and around that city. It’s totally normal to feel anxious, though — and there are ways to reduce that anxiety, like by distracting yourself with other activities, or keeping the risks in perspective. If you live in the US, it’s far more likely that you have the flu or the common cold. It’s still flu season, and high levels of flu activity aren’t expected to die down anytime soon. (It’s not too late to get a flu shot!) If you’re feeling sick and have been to Wuhan, China, or been in close contact with someone who has, tell your doctor about your symptoms. How can I protect myself? Based on what we know so far, you can protect yourself with the same measures you’d take (and should be taking) to protect yourself against the flu: wash your hands, cover your mouth when you cough, and stay away from people who are sick. Should I cancel my trip to China? The US State Department set the travel advisory for China at a level 2, warning people to exercise caution if they’re traveling there. The department says people should not travel to Hubei province, the province Wuhan is in. The CDC also says people should not travel to Wuhan unless absolutely necessary. How is China trying to stop the virus? On January 22nd, officials in Wuhan shut down all transportation in the city, which is home to over 11 million people — they closed buses and subways, and canceled all flights and trains in and out of the city. The director general of the WHO applauded the decision, saying that it would help control the outbreak and slow the spread into other countries. Fifteen other cities, home to a total of 46 million people, are locked down as well, the New York Times reported. However, other officials weren’t sure if these quarantines would be effective: “To my knowledge, trying to contain a city of 11 million people is new to science,” Gauden Galea, the World Health Organization’s representative in China, told the Associated Press. “It has not been tried before as a public health measure. We cannot at this stage say it will or it will not work.” Four cities in China — Beijing, Wuhan, Zhejiang, and Macau — canceled celebrations for the Lunar New Year, a huge holiday in China. Mei Fong/  @meifongwriter Wow this is like the Western world cancelling Christmas. For many migrant workers this is their ONLY holiday off all year, and the only time they see their families back in distant villages. https://twitter.com/onlyyoontv/status/1220312477893742592 … Eunice Yoon  @onlyyoontv Beijing joins Wuhan, Zhejiang, Macau in canceling #LunarNewYear celebrations. #China capital’s culture & tourism bureau says all public gathering activities, incl. traditional temple fairs, are off. (Holiday is normally major consumer spending time. #WuhanCoronavirus) @TheDomino 193 4:16 AM - Jan 23, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 138 people are talking about this How at risk is the United States? Until we know how easily the virus spreads, it’s hard to say how significant of an effect it could have in the United States. The CDC says the risk to people in the US is currently low. There have been three confirmed cases in the US: one in Washington state, one in Chicago, and one in California. All three patients had recently traveled from Wuhan. The CDC said in a press call on January 24 that there had been 63 suspected cases in the US. Eleven of those cases tested negative. Testing is still underway for the remaining cases. The agency said it expects to see more cases in the US as the outbreak progresses. The CDC is conducting enhanced health screenings this week for passengers who flew from or connected through Wuhan at five major airports: San Francisco International Airport, John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York, Los Angeles International Airport, Chicago O’Hare International Airport, and Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport. Any flights from or connecting through Wuhan will be funneled to those airports.+++2
Aurora is finally ready to show the world what it’s been up to The secretive self-driving car company unveiled its plans for 2020 By Zoe Schiffer@ZoeSchiffer  Jan 24, 2020, 12:51pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Aurora, the self-driving car company founded by former Waymo engineer Chris Urmson, doesn’t do dog and pony shows. It doesn’t trot out its vehicles just to prove they exist or take journalists for test drives to demonstrate that the technology actually works. In fact, in the three years since Aurora launched, the public has heard very little about how Aurora plans to compete against Waymo, Ford, and General Motors. After months of announcements — the company acquired a LIDAR sensor maker, hired a VP of hardware, and took an investment from Amazon — that finally appears to be changing. Just before the New Year, Urmson’s co-founders Sterling Anderson and Drew Bagnell hosted a rare media event to talk about their technology and take journalists for test drives. It was, in other words, a dog and pony show. “These vehicles look like garbage because they’re test vehicles,” Anderson said, before ushering us outside to try them out. The vehicles, a fleet of Lincoln MKZs, did not look like garbage; they looked functional and exceedingly clean. Inside, screens mounted on the backs of the front seats displayed a dynamic map with moving blocks and blinking lights. It was the world around us, interpreted through the “eyes” of the car. “It’s the main line of our software,” Urmson tells me in a phone call the following week. (He missed the event because of a cold.) “It wasn’t some kind of weird, pulled off to the side, polished for demo. It was our core developer branch.” It was this software that powered me along at about 20 miles per hour, accompanied by two of Aurora’s safety drivers and a journalist from NPR. As we pulled away from the venue, an oncoming vehicle nudged into our lane, prompting Aurora’s car to brake abruptly. The safety drivers seemed unperturbed. While their hands stayed on the wheel, they were observing the car in a relaxed manner, and they didn’t seem to need to take control. After successfully completing multiple left-hand turns near distracted pedestrians — the gold standard, I am told, for autonomous vehicles — the car seemed to recover its dignity, depositing us back at the venue without incident. To date, Aurora has raised $690 million in funding, and Urmson has been hailed as the “Henry Ford of autonomous vehicles,” thanks to his work helping to pioneer Google’s self-driving car initiative. His co-founders have equally prestigious backgrounds: Sterling Anderson helped lead Tesla’s Model X project, while Bagnell ran a research lab at Carnegie Mellon then left to work on autonomous vehicles at Uber. The result has been a team and company that self-driving car enthusiasts are eager to hear from. Yet, in an industry characterized by lofty predictions and flashy demonstrations, Urmson has been a voice of restraint and reason, particularly over the last couple of years. OVER THE NEXT FIVE YEARS, WE’LL START TO SEE COMMERCIAL FLEETS OF AUTONOMOUS VEHICLES PILOTING PEOPLE AND GOODS Back in 2015, Urmson said that his goal for autonomous vehicles was that things would progress so rapidly that his 11-year old son would not need to get a driver’s license. Now, he has a more measured prediction: over the next five years, we’ll start to see commercial fleets of autonomous vehicles piloting people and goods. After that, we could start to see broad adoption. Waymo, for its part, has been testing autonomous vehicles in Phoenix since 2017. In 2018, the company launched a limited ride-hailing service using its self-driving cars. The program is available in the neighboring towns of Chandler, Gilbert, Mesa, and Tempe in Arizona. More recently, it began offering rides to people in its fully driverless vehicles without safety drivers. Urmson, whose son just turned 16 and is finally in the process of getting his driver’s license, says that his original goal isn’t actually that far-fetched, given these rapid developments. “In my defense, if we happened to have moved to Chandler, there’s a neighborhood where he could conceivably get a ride around in a self-driving car without having to drive,” he said. Aurora’s core product is called the Aurora Driver, a combination of software and hardware that can be installed in different types of cars to make them drive autonomously. (This echoes his old employers who call their product the “Waymo Driver.”) So far, the system has been integrated into six different types of vehicles, including sedans, SUVs, minivans, commercial vans, and Class 8 freight trucks — none of which have been deployed commercially. Notably, these developments won’t mean Aurora will spend a lot more time test-driving cars. “We’re going to drive about half as many miles this year,” Sterling said at the event, adding that the company is focused on testing the vehicles in simulated environments. That strategy allows Aurora to test the car in unique situations that rarely come up in the real world: a fallen tree blocking the road, for example, or a severe car crash obstructing traffic. As the car learns how to respond to those situations in a simulated environment, it gets better at reacting on the road. THESE DEVELOPMENTS WON’T MEAN AURORA WILL SPEND A LOT MORE TIME TEST-DRIVING CARS To that end, Aurora has developed a proprietary system for executing these types of test drives, ultimately increasing simulating driving experiences by a factor of 100, as reported by Automotive News. It’s also doubling down on a teleoperation program that will allow specialists to remotely monitor the cars through its cameras and provide assistance in a pinch. When Aurora does test-drive cars this next year, it’ll likely be the specially designed Chrysler Pacifica minivans — a model that is also used by Urmson’s old employer Waymo. The company recently announced that it’ll begin driving these vehicles in “complex urban environments” using the latest version of the Aurora Driver and an updated version of its LIDAR. The company also said that it plans to integrate the Aurora Driver with a tractor-trailer, thanks to this new LIDAR sensor. Previously, they said, “a sensor necessary for safe freeway driving for trucks did not exist.” Now, happily, it does, and the company plans to use it to quickly move forward in trucking. Self-driving technology is expensive and time-consuming to develop, which is why many of Aurora’s competitors are owned by or aligned with big auto manufacturers and tech companies. Aurora, in contrast, plans to stay an independent supplier. “To have the biggest impact, we’ll work across a bunch of different automotive companies and truck companies and support their businesses,” Urmson says. “Whether they are public transit agencies or the Ubers and Lyfts of the world or logistics companies like Amazon or FedEx or UPS. We think about building a driver that can support all of those opportunities.” Whether the company will be able to do that without a buyout from Big Auto is an open question. But Urmson seems confident that it will happen. “It’s the kind of technology that captures peoples’ imaginations,” he says, adding that he doesn’t plan to make media events a regular occurrence. “We would much rather spend the time building something we’re proud of and then see that impact the world than spend a whole lot of time on superficial demonstrations.”+++2
Here’s the logo for Trump’s Space Force, and it looks awfully familiar 52 Boldly go where some designers have gone before By Nick Statt@nickstatt  Jan 24, 2020, 5:05pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Image: US Air Force President Donald Trump on Friday revealed the official logo for the Space Force, the newest branch of the armed forces and part of the existing United States Air Force department, in a tweet. The Space Force, a fixation of Trump’s throughout his presidency, became a reality last month when Congress passed a $738 billion military bill that created the sixth branch of the military. And now the Air Force is responsible for branding, uniform design, and the various other requirements involved with creating a new armed force. Donald J. Trump  @realDonaldTrump After consultation with our Great Military Leaders, designers, and others, I am pleased to present the new logo for the United States Space Force, the Sixth Branch of our Magnificent Military! View image on Twitter 173K 1:31 PM - Jan 24, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 81K people are talking about this However, the logo appears to borrow heavily from the fictional logo of Starfleet from the Star Trek universe. Miriam Kramer  @mirikramer Oh wow. View image on TwitterView image on Twitter 1,306 1:35 PM - Jan 24, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 678 people are talking about this Vocal Trump critic and former Star Trek cast member George Takei also weighed in. George Takei  @GeorgeTakei Ahem. We are expecting some royalties from this... https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1220821545746141187 … Donald J. Trump  @realDonaldTrump After consultation with our Great Military Leaders, designers, and others, I am pleased to present the new logo for the United States Space Force, the Sixth Branch of our Magnificent Military! View image on Twitter 109K 1:39 PM - Jan 24, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 18.8K people are talking about this Analyst and former national security policy advisor John Noonan, who was a member of the USAF, commented on Twitter shortly after the announcement to point out that the Space Force logo, while similar in design to the Starfleet one, is in fact based on an existing Air Force command logo. John Noonan  @noonanjo For those excitedly tweeting that Trump stole the Star Trek logo!!!!, the patch on the left was the existing Air Force Command logo. The same one I wore as a Lieutenant in 2005. View image on TwitterView image on Twitter 7,201 1:50 PM - Jan 24, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 3,722 people are talking about this Adding another wrinkle to the situation is that Trump’s political action committee, the Trump Make America Great Again Committee, was polling voters back in 2018 about which Space Force logos they liked the best. And the six options provided all look drastically different than the end result we have today, with quite a few featuring NASA-inspired iconography and type faces alongside retro-futurist aesthetics. It’s not entirely clear how the team responsible for branding the Space Force went from that to what Trump revealed this afternoon. But here we are. eve peyser  @evepeyser The Trump/Pence PAC is already trying to monetize the Space Force: "As a way to celebrate President Trump’s huge announcement, our campaign will be selling a new line of gear."View image on Twitter 376 11:47 AM - Aug 9, 2018 Twitter Ads info and privacy 342 people are talking about this Although, as one user on Twitter noted, the designers did seem to take some cues from the NASA logo, predominantly the exact placement of the stars that appear to have been copied over directly. You were so distracted by the Star Trek thing that you didn’t even notice they copy and pasted the stars from the NASA logo pic.twitter.com/ooqkph5GRt — Josh Billinson (@jbillinson) January 24, 2020 CBS, which owns the rights to Star Trek, was not immediately available for comment.+++2
Production delays on Obi-Wan Disney+ series are part of a bigger Star Wars problem It’s not necessarily bad news — yet By Julia Alexander  Jan 24, 2020, 9:41am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Preproduction on Lucasfilm’s highly anticipated Obi-Wan Disney+ series is delayed as the series grapples with script issues and lead writer Hossein Amini’s departure, according to Variety. The news, which was downplayed as minor by lead actor Ewan McGregor, comes as concerns about Star Wars’ future are brought into question following The Rise of Skywalker’s lukewarm release. Numerous outlets reported that Obi-Wan was facing major rewrites to fix story issues. Sources told The Hollywood Reporter that Obi-Wan felt similar to The Mandalorian, suggesting that McGregor’s Jedi could lend “a protective hand to a young Luke and possible even a young Leia.” McGregor downplayed the reports in an interview with The Wrap, acknowledging that they moved shooting to next year instead of going ahead with beginning filming this year. But he said, “The scripts are really good.” McGregor added that he saw “90 percent of the writing and really liked it.” “All this bullshit about creative differences and all that stuff is, none of it true,” McGregor told The Wrap. “We just pushed the dates. [Rise of Skywalker] came out, everyone had more time to read the stuff that had been written, and they felt that they wanted to do more work on it. It’s not nearly as dramatic as it sounds online.” Disney confirmed to The Verge that Obi-Wan is still in development and director Deb Chow is still attached to direct, but didn’t comment on whether or not story issues were to blame for the delay. Amini’s departure coupled with the rewrites, however, suggests there were issues with the project. Lucasfilm president Kathleen Kennedy previously told a stadium full of fans at Disney’s biennial D23 convention in August that “we have all the scripts written.” This was before The Mandalorian, which debuted alongside Disney+ on November 12th, and before The Rise of Skywalker, which hit theaters on December 20th. Both The Mandalorian and The Rise of Skywalker are key to the current conversation about Star Wars, alongside another live-action series heading to Disney+: the Cassian Andor spinoff. “IT’S NOT NEARLY AS DRAMATIC AS IT SOUNDS ONLINE.” Based on Diego Luna’s character from 2016’s Rogue One, the series faced its own writing changes in October 2019. Tony Gilroy, who was brought on to Rogue One to help rewrite some of the film and reshoot some scenes, was brought on to the Cassian Andor series to write the pilot and direct multiple episodes. Although showrunner Stephen Schiff is still attached to the series, many insiders saw Gilroy’s inclusion as a shake-up behind the scenes. Star Wars is in a weird moment. The Rise of Skywalker was met with a lukewarm reception, and it didn’t perform as well at the box office as the other two films in the new trilogy, The Force Awakens and The Last Jedi. Many critics claimed the film — which dealt with its own major issues, leading to J.J. Abrams taking over directing duties from Colin Trevorrow — felt rushed. Disney CEO Bob Iger told Variety that although he wasn’t dismissive of Star Wars fans, executives at the company don’t “overreact” to negative conversations happening in the space. Still, Iger knows that Star Wars isn’t just something they can continue playing around with and hope for the best. Iger added that although they accept multiple pitches, the number of Star Wars projects in development is probably less than people think because they don’t want “Star Wars fatigue” to grow. “I think the number [of projects] is endless, but we’re gonna be careful, the next one is really important,” he said. Aside from The Mandalorian’s second season this fall, it’s unclear what the “next one” is for Disney. The newest Star Wars entry on the horizon is the seventh and final season of Dave Filoni’s Star Wars: The Clone Wars — a continuation of a show from 2008. Preproduction on Obi-Wan is delayed, and, although McGregor told reporters the goal is still to hit the 2021 premiere date, that can change. There also aren’t any updates on Luna’s Cassian Andor show. The next Star Wars feature film won’t hit until 2022, and there are currently no details on what that might look like. (Although there’s always a chance Marvel Studios chief Kevin Feige could be taking it, considering he’s committed to doing one Star Wars movie.) “I THINK THE NUMBER [OF PROJECTS] IS ENDLESS, BUT WE’RE GONNA BE CAREFUL, THE NEXT ONE IS REALLY IMPORTANT.” Delays are never good signs, but they’re also not inherently negative. If the loudest complaint Disney is hearing about The Rise of Skywalker is that the film felt rushed (which it certainly could have been in an attempt to keep the December 20th, 2019, release date), taking a step back with Obi-Wan is the right move. It’s also something the gaming industry has started to rely on, pushing release dates back to try to make a more polished product rather than release patch after patch — something that’s much easier to do with a game than a movie or TV series. Disney is in a transitionary period. Its two biggest franchises are entering new stages: Marvel Studios is moving forward in a world without Steve Rogers’ Captain America and Tony Stark’s Iron Man, while Star Wars moves beyond the Skywalker family. The company is also focusing its attention on smaller screens around the world as Disney+ gears up for a wider international launch and studios start showcasing their Disney+ originals. Disney needs everything to go better than well; it has to be spectacular. The Mandalorian set a high bar for what a Star Wars show could do in the streaming space. It’s a tough act to follow. What’s obvious from all of these reports is that Star Wars live-action shows are still being figured out. On the other end of the spectrum is Marvel Studios, which moved WandaVision up from 2021 to 2020. The show ties into Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness, and despite problems on Doctor Strange’s side (director Scott Derrickson left over creative differences), WandaVision is ready to go earlier than expected. This doesn’t mean that one is stronger than the other, but it does imply there’s a vision for WandaVision that is still being found on the Star Wars projects. Update (January 24th, 12:00pm ET): The story has been updated to include additional details from Disney+++2
THE BEST WIRELESS EARBUDS TO BUY RIGHT NOW It’s hard to make a bad choice, but Apple and Jabra remain the standouts By Chris Welch@chriswelch  Updated Jan 24, 2020, 11:00am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options It’sIt’s 2020, and by now, you’ve probably owned your first pair of true wireless earbuds. It’s not until you use them that you can truly appreciate the freedom that comes with shedding all cables. Even earbuds with a neckband (aka “neckbuds”), though they offer longer battery life, can snag on things and be uncomfortably yanked from your ears. True wireless earbuds, meanwhile, continue to make advances in sound quality, comfort, connection stability, and ease of use. Above all else, they’re inherently convenient and freeing — as long as you don’t lose them, anyway. But a downside of these earbuds can be longevity. If you were an AirPods early adopter or got a pair of Galaxy Buds with your Samsung phone, they might not hold a charge like they used to, and you’re probably on the hunt for a replacement set. This feeling of disposability and planned obsolescence is frustrating, but from a product perspective, the benefits and disentanglement that come with true wireless earbuds still make them a worthwhile buy. You’ll know you’ve found the right wireless earbuds when they can sit comfortably and securely in your ears for hours on end, sound like something worthy of their price, and last long enough (with case recharges) that you’ll only occasionally have to stress about charging them up with a cable. BEST WIRELESS EARBUDS: APPLE AIRPODS PRO Photo by Chris Welch / The Verge Apple finally came up with a solution for the many people with ears that were never a good match for regular AirPods: spend more money. Thanks to their revamped in-ear design and silicone tips, the AirPods Pro can fit a wider assortment of people compared to the standard AirPods and are the best Apple-branded earbuds yet. And since they now seal in your ears, Apple also added a noise cancellation feature. The AirPods Pro remain ideally suited for iPhone owners and, because the competition has gotten so good, they’re harder to recommend if you have an Android phone. Setting them up is child’s play: just open the case next to your phone and follow the prompts, after which they automatically sync with all of your Apple devices. Their noise-canceling powers are no match for over-ear headphones like the Bose Noise Canceling Headphones 700 (or other recommended picks), but they’re competent at muting office chitchat and deadening the raucous sounds of the subway. Apple’s natural-sounding transparency mode does a fantastic job of piping in outside noise when you want to hear it. OUR REVIEW OFAPPLE AIRPODS PRO VERGE SCORE 9OUT OF 10 GOOD STUFF Comfortable, light fit Perfect match for Apple’s devices Decent noise cancellation BAD STUFF Can be buggy at times Still not the right fit for some people So-so battery life Buy for $249.00 from Apple Buy for $249.00 from Walmart Buy for $249.00 from Best Buy You can expect a significant upgrade over previous AirPods in terms of sound quality, with the in-ear seal helping to amplify bass response for a clean, well-balanced listening experience. And the AirPods remain the best choice if you make a lot of voice calls on the go, with excellent microphone performance aided by the noise cancellation, which helps you hear the person you’re talking to more clearly. But the AirPods Pro aren’t a flawless product; with 4.5 hours of battery life when noise cancellation is enabled, they won’t last through a cross-country flight. I still regularly take both earbuds out of the case only to find that audio is coming from just one of them. This can only be resolved by putting them back in the case and trying again. Despite three included sizes of ear tips, some people still can’t get a perfect fit and have come up with clever ways of adding memory foam to the mix. Separately, complaints have recently emerged about Apple’s noise cancellation taking a step down in effectiveness after firmware updates. Last, though they’re water and sweat resistant, the AirPods Pro aren’t quite as impervious to those elements as other fitness-focused earbuds on the market. BEST IF YOU’VE GOT AN ANDROID PHONE: JABRA ELITE 75T Photo by Avery White / The Verge The Jabra Elite 75t earbuds are a terrific sequel to the company’s well-reviewed 65t buds. Now featuring a smaller, lighter, and far more comfortable design, the new Jabras also extend battery life over their predecessors and make a leap in sound quality. They roundly outperform the AirPods Pro when it comes to bass (so much so that you’ll probably want to turn down the low end in Jabra’s app), and they last longer, too: up to 7.5 hours of continuous listening on a charge. The 75t earbuds lack active noise cancellation, which undoubtedly helps extend endurance, but they at least give you very decent noise isolation. OUR REVIEW OFJABRA ELITE 75T VERGE SCORE 8.5OUT OF 10 GOOD STUFF More comfortable, smaller design Improved carrying case Good sound quality with thumping bass BAD STUFF No active noise cancellation No wireless charging (yet) Controls can get confusing Buy for $179.99 from Amazon Buy for $179.99 from Best Buy You can pair the 75t earbuds with two devices at once, seamlessly switching between music on your laptop or tablet and taking a call on your phone. There’s no noticeable mismatch between audio and video when watching Netflix, YouTube, or other apps. And though it takes some memorization, Jabra’s control scheme (just a single button on each earbud) works well once you’ve got it down and lets you adjust volume without grabbing your phone or asking a voice assistant to do it. There’s a lot to like about Jabra’s latest earbuds, and they work equally well on both Android and iOS. If you’ve got an iPhone, I still think the AirPods Pro are a better match because they’re so interwoven into the software, but if you want rumbling bass, consider saving quite a few dollars and going with the Jabra Elite 75t. OTHER CONTENDERS With a bigger field than ever before, you’ve got plenty of other options if neither of our recommended picks are what you’re looking for. The Powerbeats Pro take many of the best attributes of AirPods and put them in a form factor that’s better suited for the gym or running; they also have vastly better battery life but lack the active noise cancelation and come in a chunky case. If you’re mainly looking for a pair of fitness buds, I like the Jaybird Vistas for that scenario, as they fit snugly and come in a wonderfully compact case. Amazon’s Echo Buds are a terrific first effort from the company, offering good sound quality that’s made better by Bose’s noise reduction technology. Sony’s 1000XM3 earbuds outperform the AirPods Pro at noise cancellation, but they lack any official rating for water or sweat resistance. And if you can’t bring yourself to spend $150 or more on earbuds, Anker’s Soundcore products continue to impress at a price point that’s easier to stomach. There are more picks to come this year, with new Pixel Buds from Google, Surface Buds from Microsoft, and new wireless earbuds from Bose all on the way in 2020. OUR REVIEW OFBEATS POWERBEATS PRO VERGE SCORE 8.5OUT OF 10 GOOD STUFF Superbly comfortable and steady in the ear, even during intense workouts Huge soundstage for true wireless earphones Rich sound with satisfying bass thump Sweat and water resistance Epic battery life for the category BAD STUFF Laughably large carrying case The treble energy can be fatiguing with long listening sessions Wireless or USB-C charging would have been nice Not the most discreet look for office or casual environments Buy for $199.95 from Walmart Buy for $249.95 from Best Buy Buy for $249.95 from Apple OUR REVIEW OFAMAZON ECHO BUDS VERGE SCORE 8OUT OF 10 GOOD STUFF Excellent sound quality Good, comfortable fit Bose’s noise reduction makes a difference BAD STUFF Micro USB. UGH. No wireless charging Some early bugs Buy for $129.99 from Amazon OUR REVIEW OFSONY WF-1000XM3 VERGE SCORE 8OUT OF 10 GOOD STUFF Noise cancellation in a tiny package Excellent sound quality Classy, sleek look Lengthy battery life for true wireless earbuds BAD STUFF No sweat or water resistance Can only pair to one device at a time No wireless charging Can’t control volume from earbuds Buy for $229.99 from Amazon Buy for $229.99 from B&H Photo OUR REVIEW OFJAYBIRD VISTA VERGE SCORE 8OUT OF 10 GOOD STUFF Ideal for gym and fitness use Compact charging case Very comfortable and secure fit BAD STUFF No AAC support No wireless charging Lackluster voice call quality Buy for $179.99 from Jaybid Buy for $179.99 from Walmart Buy for $179.99 from Amazon OUR REVIEW OFANKER SOUNDCORE LIBERTY 2 PRO VERGE SCORE 7.5OUT OF 10 GOOD STUFF Above-average sound quality for the price Good seal and noise isolation Wireless charging BAD STUFF Faint white noise when listening to podcasts or quiet music Slider case is a bit bigger than recent competitors Mediocre voice call quality Buy for $149.99 from Amazon Buy for $149.99 from Best Buy OUR REVIEW OFANKER SOUNDCORE LIBERTY AIR 2 VERGE SCORE 7.5OUT OF 10 GOOD STUFF Longer battery life than AirPods Fantastic voice call quality Wireless charging BAD STUFF Average sound quality No transparency mode Touch controls are a bit finicky Buy for $79.99 from Amazon Buy for $99.99 from Best Buy OUR REVIEW OFMASTER & DYNAMIC MW07 PLUS VERGE SCORE 7OUT OF 10 GOOD STUFF Vastly improved battery life Effective noise cancellation Exciting sound quality BAD STUFF Still very expensive Can only pair to one device at a time The very scratch-prone case requires careful handling Divisive design OUR REVIEW OFSENNHEISER MOMENTUM TRUE WIRELESS VERGE SCORE 6.5OUT OF 10 GOOD STUFF The best, purest sound of any true wireless buds yet Durable earbud design and case Comfortable Good microphone performance BAD STUFF Bad battery drain when in charging case Unintuitive controls Occasional audio dropouts+++2
Spree review: in search of an audience Stranger Things’ Joe Keery gets his creep on in this murder-filled dark comedy By Adi Robertson@thedextriarchy  Jan 26, 2020, 11:20am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Joe Keery in Spree Sundance Film Festival Welcome to Cheat Sheet, our breakdown-style reviews of festival films, VR previews, and other special event releases. This review comes from the 2020 Sundance Film Festival. When a real-life killer finds fame on a forum or a social network — a trend that’s become depressingly frequent in recent years — there are two common conclusions. The first is that social media is some kind of new, unprecedented evil, as if the Zodiac killer never crafted an elaborate brand strategy through local newspapers, or TV news never helped turn mass shooters into celebrities. The second is that modern web platforms simply produce their own distinct kinds of nightmares, ones that twist their wholesome promises of openness and trust. Spree, a horror-comedy directed by Eugene Kotlyarenko, captures the latter with remarkable style. It uses an experimental blend of naturalistic filmmaking and footage from phone apps, following a man who wants desperately and pathetically to be noticed — even if that involves a mass murder campaign with a viral hashtag. WHAT’S THE GENRE? Spree’s plot is basically a Black Mirror episode, and its aesthetic blends found-footage techniques with the “screen film” style of movies like Searching and Unfriended. Most action is shot diegetically through GoPro and phone cameras, including a lot of Periscope-esque vertical video overlaid with audience reactions. Tonally, it’s a sometimes queasy mix of satire and slasher film, carried by an over-the-top performance from Stranger Things star Joe Keery. The plot isn’t based on true events, but it’s tied fairly realistically into the world of tech and social media, fictionalizing some controversies and referencing an actual mass murder by an Uber driver in 2016. WHAT’S IT ABOUT? A failed pseudo-Uber driver and internet content creator (Keery) decides to “go viral” by embarking on a livestreamed murder spree called #TheLesson. This is unbearably and intentionally cringeworthy. Kurt (who introduces himself as “KurtsWorld96”) is a social media strategy guide made flesh. He’s a self-described content creator who produces hours of bad electronic music and introspective videos that nobody watches. His idea of a conversation-starter is “how did you grow your following?”, and his face is set permanently in a manic grin. As a driver for the ride-hailing app Spree, he obsessively asks riders to tag him on Instagram and swears that he always follows back. #TheLesson, an elaborate scheme to kill Spree users, is Kurt’s final attempt to grow his audience. But a depressingly mediocre streamer who murders people... is still just a depressingly mediocre streamer. So to his horror, nobody really cares or even believes the deaths are real. As Kurt goes to greater and greater lengths to impress viewers, he becomes fixated on a successful social media star named Jessie Adams (Sasheer Zamata), who has started to have her own misgivings about being famous online. WHAT’S IT REALLY ABOUT? Spree is a savage dissection of digital social climbing. Kurt is at the bottom of the ladder, obviously. But as the film expands its focus to Jessie, we see the same dynamics play out at other levels of internet stardom. Characters engage with each other by carefully identifying their relative status, then trying to film or be filmed by the biggest star in the room — conveyed through some effective editing tricks, like scenes playing out across footage from several people’s phones at once. This behavior looks a lot like old-fashioned power jockeying. But Spree emphasizes the specific pressure of social media’s instant feedback loop and hyper-quantification. Comments from fans pop up at the bottom of the screen, sometimes mocking the characters and sometimes egging them on. Instead of subjectively judging somebody’s influence, people rely on the merciless metrics of views and follower counts. Spree also puts forward a bleakly amoral vision of the internet economy. Kurt’s politics are all monetization strategies — he’ll call out a white supremacist on his live murder stream because platforms don’t like racism, and he despises homeless people because they aren’t online enough. His hashtag, #TheLesson, evokes an aggrieved alt-right troll or an overzealous social justice crusade. But it’s actually a literal guide for getting famous, including an instructional video for a deadly craft project. Jessie, meanwhile, is a black woman whose comedy calls out racism and misogyny. But in Spree, she’s stuck playing the same game as Kurt — any genuine idealism is quickly captured, repackaged, and posted online. The real-world internet culture wars still exist here, but they’re just opposing corners of one big content farm. IS IT GOOD? Keery pulls off the trick of being creepy, sad, and fun to watch even as he’s descending deeper and deeper into monstrosity. And the film leans hard into dark comedy rather than outright horror, which saves it from seeming like technophobic scaremongering or a “kids these days” moral panic. If you’re the kind of person who can laugh at slapstick murder vignettes, a lot of Spree works very well. On the other hand, those vignettes eventually start feeling repetitive. Spree stalls out in the middle with some scenes that are fun on their own, but don’t add enough to the film’s central joke that social media fans are shallow and think everything is a prank. Kurt’s victims are usually as unpleasantly self-obsessed as he is, so with the exception of Jessie, it’s hard to get invested in their fates. And when Spree fully commits to the idea that Kurt’s murders are a microcosm of... *film gesticulates wildly at social media*, it doesn’t have enough time to make its case. HOW CAN I ACTUALLY WATCH IT? Spree is currently seeking distribution.+++2
This week’s best deals include Eero’s mesh Wi-Fi kit, the Google Pixel 4, and more A rundown of the best offers currently available By Cameron Faulkner@camfaulkner  Jan 25, 2020, 10:00am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Photo by Dan Seifert / The Verge This story is part of a group of stories called Good Deals Only the best deals on Verge-approved gadgets get the Good Deals stamp of approval, so if you're looking for a deal on your next gadget or gift from major retailers like Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, Target, and more, this is the place to be. Vox Media has affiliate partnerships. These do not influence editorial content, though Vox Media may earn commissions for products purchased via affiliate links. For more information, see our ethics policy. The weekend is a good time to catch up on everything, including deals that you might have missed throughout the week. Below, you’ll find a mix of new sales we think are worth pointing out and a few ongoing offers that have already been featured in our coverage. Eero’s three-pack of mesh Wi-Fi routers (pictured above) was a popular product during Black Friday and Cyber Monday, mostly because it was selling for the low price of $159 ($90 off its retail price). We haven’t seen it go that low since, but it’s selling for $174 at Amazon and $174.99 at Best Buy right now in case you’re still looking for a mesh Wi-Fi solution to blanket your abode with reliable wireless coverage. Photo by Chris Welch / The Verge Google Nest Mini smart speakers usually cost $49.99 (you can commonly find them for less), but Daily Steals is offering Verge readers a special deal for a limited time on a two-pack of new Nest Mini speakers. After you’ve added them to your cart, enter the code VERGENEST at checkout to get two for $56.99. Photo by Francois Duhamel / Twentieth Century Fox Amazon has been running a “buy three for the price of two” deal on Blu-ray movies and video games for the past few days, and it still seems to be running. Newly released movies are eligible, including The Farewell, Joker, Us, Once Upon a Time in Hollywood, Ad Astra, It Chapter Two, and Gemini Man. Studio Ghibli classics like Spirited Away, Princess Mononoke, and Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind are part of this offer as well. If you’re after games, the selection isn’t quite as good, though games like Death Stranding, Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order (PS4, Xbox One), Dragon Quest Builders 2 (PS4), and Monster Hunter World: Iceborne Master Edition (PS4, Xbox One) are up for grabs. Photo by Chris Welch / The Verge Beats Solo Pro on-ear wireless headphones with active noise cancellation are $249.99 at Best Buy through Monday, January 27th. These usually run for $299.99, and according to our review, they’re the best Beats headphones yet. Best Buy is offering them in several color variations. Moment, the maker of phone cases, mobile lenses that can attach to them, and other products, is hosting a winter clearance sale. The company says you can save up to 60 percent on select products, photography lessons, and more. The Half-Life franchise is free to play on Steam for the next two months. As Valve nears the release of its anticipated Half-Life: Alyx VR title in March, the company has made it easier than ever for those who haven’t yet played all of the games and expansions to do so. Once you’re logged in to your Steam account, visit this page to start downloading them on the house. Photo by Vjeran Pavic / The Verge Google’s 2019 flagship phones, the Pixel 4 and Pixel 4 XL, are each $100 off at Best Buy and include a free $200 gift card with purchase. This deal works only for the 64GB black models, which cost $699.99 and $799.99, respectively, during this sale period. Make sure to click “Activate Later” beneath the price listed on the product page; otherwise, Best Buy assumes you will want to tie it to a carrier plan.+++2
New trailers: Star Wars: The Clone Wars, Netflix’s Taylor Swift documentary, and more 17 Plus a new comedy from Jon Stewart By Jacob Kastrenakes@jake_k  Jan 25, 2020, 10:00am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Image: Disney I feel like war movies all too often take the form of action films focused on big, broad, and misguided emotions like glory. So it was a wonderful surprise watching Jojo Rabbit, one of the first World War II movies I’ve seen in some time that actually has something meaningful to say. The film does a brilliant job of satirizing the harmful ways people are divided by language and fear. It focuses on a young boy in 1940s Germany who subscribes to Nazi ideology to fit in. It mostly leads to sadness and embarrassment as he begins to realize that everything he’s been told is wrong. Some of the most revealing moments are big and obvious, like another child being surprised to see that everything he’d learned about Jews was a lie. But the best moments are the quiet ones, when the adults nod along, knowing the lies retold by children are outlandish, but declining to say so. Now as much as ever, it feels like an important issue to explore. Check out nine trailers from this week below. STAR WARS: THE CLONE WARS Disney+’s next big Star Wars release is a new season of The Clone Wars, a much-loved animated series that hasn’t had new episodes since 2014. Disney is billing this as the show’s final season, so this isn’t exactly a way to keep Disney+ filled with new Star Wars content. But the rest of the show is available to stream, too, which should mean there’s plenty for people who haven’t seen the series yet. The new season debuts February 21st. MISS AMERICANA It doesn’t really matter whether Miss Americana is a very good documentary or not — it has intimate access to Taylor Swift, a behind-the-scenes look at the making of her latest album, and promises to explore much of the drama that surrounds her: people are going to watch it one way or another. Netflix picked up the film before it could hit Sundance, and it’ll head to the streaming service January 31st. IRRESISTIBLE Jon Stewart is back with his second film since leaving The Daily Show. Irresistible looks like a fictionalized spin on the exact type of political nonsense he used to skewer: Democrats desperate to connect, Republicans constantly lying, and pundits going overboard on all of it. The film stars Steve Carell, so it should be fun to see what the two of them make together. It comes out May 29th. HORSE GIRL Let’s just start by acknowledging that Horse Girl is a good title, and that having Alison Brie star is a good decision. From there, I have no idea, and I’ll just say this truly feels like a Netflix movie — not exactly a must see, but very much an Okay sure, I’d like to know what’s going on now that this is autoplaying. It has Brie starring as a lonely woman who seemingly starts to lose it, or be abducted, or probably turn into a horse or something. The film comes out February 7th. THE RHYTHM SECTION From the name of this movie and still on this trailer, you could easily assume that this is a rom-com about some dapper musician in London. It’s actually a revenge thriller that has Blake Lively stepping into a Bond-like role after being swept up into some conspiracy. It comes out January 31st. I WISH I KNEW After the international success of Ash Is Purest White, one of director Jia Zhangke’s earlier films is getting a US release. His 2010 film I Wish I Knew is a gorgeously shot documentary about China’s modern history, as seen through the last century in Shanghai. It starts to hit US theaters this weekend, starting in New York. VISIBLE: OUT ON TELEVISION Apple TV Plus has a documentary coming up looking at LGBTQ representation on TV. The eight-hour series includes interviews with Ellen DeGeneres, Anderson Cooper, Rachel Maddow, and quite a few other famous faces, as well as narration by Margaret Cho, Neil Patrick Harris, Lena Waithe, and more. It comes out February 14th. THE LAST THING HE WANTED Mudbound director Dee Rees returns with a film about a journalist who somehow gets tied up in an illegal arms trading scheme. The movie stars Anne Hathaway and Ben Affleck and looks like it twists into a socio-political thriller. It comes out February 21st. VIVARIUM Jesse Eisenberg and Imogen Poots star in this strange sci-fi movie about a couple who become trapped in a neighborhood of identical homes and are forced to raise some kind of freaky clone baby. It seems fun, and I’m assuming there’ll be some cutting criticism of suburbia in here. There doesn’t appear to be a release date just yet. (As a side note: At one point, this trailer flashes a huge Rotten Tomatoes logo advertising an 89 percent rating, and while that’s a great score, I still find loudly advertising a B+ to be kind of hilarious. The rating is now at 87 percent.)+++2
How to pick the right Fitbit for you Ask yourself: what feature is most important? By Natt Garun@nattgarun  Jan 24, 2020, 1:24pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Photo by Natt Garun / The Verge Fitbit is probably one of the best-known brands of smartwatches / fitness trackers next to the Apple Watch, and its range of wearables offers something for every kind of health enthusiast. If you want to get started with a fitness band that won’t over-extend your budget, Fitbit has a large selection that’s especially well-suited for those who are new to wearables. In fact, Fitbit offers a variety of fitness bands in various form factors: there’s the Versa 2, Versa Lite, Ionic, Charge 3 (and a special edition version with Fitbit Pay), Inspire, Inspire HR, and Ace 2, which are all designed for different lifestyles and age groups. So depending on whether you’re looking to start walking a little more each day or diligently track your workout progress over time, here’s what to consider when choosing the right Fitbit for you. IF YOU WANT A FEATURE-PACKED FITBIT FITBIT VERSA 2 Photo by Amelia Holowaty Krales / The Verge Although the Ionic is technically the most premium product that Fitbit offers, the Versa 2 is just a better and more well-rounded device for most people. (Quite literally: the screen has rounded corners that fit and look better on most wrists.) The device comes with on-screen guided workouts, week-long battery life, Fitbit Pay, blood oxygen tracking, swim-proofing, quick replies for incoming text messages, and sleep tracking. The Versa 2, which retails for a little under $200, also features an OLED screen (compared to the Ionic’s LCD screen), making the display that much more vivid, bright, and clear. If you value all of these features, there’s really no reason to spring for the Ionic unless you absolutely require built-in GPS so you can run or bike outside without a phone. You can also opt to wait and see what the upcoming Ionic 2 will offer, though I don’t necessarily recommend it since Fitbit still hasn’t released concrete timing on its release. (Fitbit’s CEO has teased the Ionic 2 for over a year, and we still haven’t heard much about it.) IF YOU WANT THE BEST BANG FOR YOUR BUCK FITBIT CHARGE 3 SPECIAL EDITION Photo by Amelia Holowaty Krales / The Verge The Charge 3 Special Edition is probably the best middle-of-the-road Fitbit since the device is the only Fitbit tracker that also gets advanced features designed for a smartwatch. That means you’ll also get Fitbit Pay, quick replies, always-on heart rate tracking, sleep tracking, and swim-proofing for $170. (But since the Charge 3 SE has been around for a while, you’ll likely be able to snag it for around $150, give or take, pretty easily these days.) IF YOU HATE THE LOOK OF A TRADITIONAL SMARTWATCH / FITNESS BAND FITBIT INSPIRE HR Photo by Amelia Holowaty Krales / The Verge This is the best Fitbit that doesn’t look quite like a Fitbit. Multiple band options, including a mesh metal one, turn it into more of a fashion bracelet than workout wear. It’s also likely to fit better on a smaller person’s wrist, considering the slimmer profile. For $100, you get a fitness band that has a built-in heart rate monitor, a five-day battery life, and swim-proofing for underwater exercises or excursions at the pool / beach. The Fitbit Inspire HR is a great tracker for both beginners and those who want a little more from their wearable without other features that might seem superfluous, such as Fitbit Pay or internal music storage. IF YOU WANT A FITBIT THAT AGES WITH YOU FITBIT ACE 2 / INSPIRE Photo by Natt Garun / The Verge Fitbit designed the Ace 2 for kids, with custom software that features cartoon faces to encourage younger wearers to get moving periodically. The Ace 2 is essentially the Inspire with a modded interface, and it can be updated to become the Inspire when kids have grown out of the cartoon characters and want a “real” tracker. You simply update the software and find a new band to fit around the center module. The tracker lacks features like quick replies and heart rate monitoring, but that’s to be expected considering you can find it for around $50 to $70 — half the price of Fitbit devices that do offer those features. Still, it is a solid Fitbit on a budget.+++2
How to download apps for your Fitbit Make the most of your new smartwatch By Monica Chin@mcsquared96  Jan 24, 2020, 2:56pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Photo by Amelia Holowaty Krales / The Verge So you’re the owner of a brand-new Fitbit Versa or Ionic smartwatch. Congratulations! If you’ve never used a smartwatch before, you may be (understandably) overwhelmed. If you swipe left from the home screen, you’ll see that there are dozens of different things to click on: Spotify, Wallet, Weather, and more. But those apps are only a fraction of what Fitbit has to offer. There are hundreds of third-party apps available for your smartwatch, which you can use to really make it your own. Fitness enthusiasts, for example, can download any number of apps tailored to their workout needs: Strava for runners, MySwimPro for swimmers, Mindbody for yoga, or FitStar for personal training. Meanwhile, smart home enthusiasts can load Alexa, Nest, and IFTTT; shoppers can compile their store membership cards; and travelers can set up Uber, Find My Car, and more. FITBIT’S STORE HAS HUNDREDS OF APPS A couple of things to note before we get into the process of downloading apps to your Fitbit. First, Fitbit apps aren’t as fully fledged as Android and iOS apps are. For example, they usually can’t access Wi-Fi. Instead, they communicate via Bluetooth with a proxy version of the app on your phone. (Some apps, such as Starbucks and Uber, will require you to create an account and log in on your phone before you can use them on your watch.) As a result, Fitbit apps can’t update if your phone isn’t nearby, and their interfaces are fairly bare-bones. They can still be very functional and handy, but don’t expect a full-featured experience. Second, you can’t download apps onto your Fitbit directly. Instead, you download them through the Fitbit app on your phone. This may seem like a hassle at first, but it’s easy once you’ve gotten the hang of it. The first thing you’ll need to do is download the Fitbit app to your phone and pair it to your smartwatch. To do that: Download the Fitbit app from the Apple App Store, Google Play Store, or Microsoft Store. You’ll be prompted to create a Fitbit account. In the Fitbit app, tap your profile icon in the top left corner, and select “Set Up a Device.” Follow the prompts from there; you should be paired in just a few minutes. GRID VIEW 1 of 4 HOW TO ADD APPS TO YOUR FITBIT Once your device is paired to your phone, you’re ready to download apps. To do that: Tap your profile icon in the top left corner of the app. Select your device. Hit “Apps” > “All Apps.” This will put you in Fitbit’s app store where you can browse the offerings. To install an app, tap its icon, and hit “Install.” You may need to agree to some permissions to proceed. (Quick caveat here: when Google purchased Fitbit last November, many users were spooked about the company’s potential uses of their personal health metrics. Google stated that it would not sell Fitbit customer data or use it to inform Google ads. However, if you’re concerned about privacy, it is worth reading through and considering the permissions each app is asking you for before you download.) Once your phone confirms that the app has downloaded, swipe all the way to the left from your smartwatch’s home screen. You should see that the new app has appeared.+++2
More developers are making games for next-gen consoles than streaming services 55 PC still tops the stack with most new projects By Megan Farokhmanesh@Megan_Nicolett  Jan 24, 2020, 12:00pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options PlayStation controllers Photo by Vjeran Pavic / The Verge Sony and Microsoft’s next-gen consoles are both expected to launch later this year, and developers are gearing up with new games. According to GDC’s new annual survey, developers are more likely to be working on a game for the PlayStation 5 or Xbox Series X, previously known as Project Scarlett, than game streaming services like Google Stadia and Project xCloud. In the entertainment industry, streaming is bigger than it’s ever been; the streaming wars have divided consumer attention between platforms like Netflix, Hulu, HBO Go, Disney+, and Amazon Prime Video. Each platform has its own offerings of unique or exclusive content to lure in dedicated subscribers. In the game industry, however, such a service has yet to land. When asked about which platform current projects were being developed on, 11 percent of respondents said they were developing their game for PS5. Answers for Xbox Series X were at 9 percent. While Google Stadia is the most promising swing yet at a cloud-based contender, developer interest still can’t compare. Only 6 percent of survey respondents are working on projects for Stadia; that number is even lower for Project xCloud at 3 percent. As for this year’s expected next-gen consoles, full details have yet to be announced. Sony hasn’t revealed much about its upcoming console, aside from the name, logo, and holiday 2020 release date. The company has teased a few details about its specs, such as 8K graphics, ray tracing, and backwards compatibility. Microsoft, meanwhile, showed off its design for the upcoming console last year. Xbox chief Phil Spencer has promised it will “deliver four times the processing power of Xbox One X”; include custom-designed CPU based on AMD’s Zen 2 and Radeon RDNA architecture; and support 8K gaming, ray tracing, frame rates of up to 120 fps in games, and variable refresh rate support. More news on both consoles are expected in the coming months. Notably, Sony will once again be skipping E3 this year. The majority of upcoming games, however, are still being developed for PC (56 percent of respondents) and / or mobile (39 percent). Other findings from the survey touch on unionization and VR: Support for unionization is rising from previous years, with 54 percent of respondents responding yes to the question of whether devs should unionize. Last year, affirmative responses were 47 percent. Asked whether developers would unionize, however, 23 percent replied yes. The largest responses came from the “maybe” pile at 43 percent; 22 percent said no, while 12 percent said they just didn’t know. Oculus Quest is the most popular platform AR / VR developers are interested in. Of respondents, 24 percent said Quest, while the Rift came in with 20 percent, and 17 percent said HTC Vive.+++2
Android’s AirDrop competitor demonstrated in new hands-on video 59 Nearby Sharing should be a fast way to transfer your files By Jon Porter@JonPorty  Jan 24, 2020, 11:21am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Illustration by Alex Castro / The Verge A new hands-on video from XDA Developers has given us our best look yet at Android’s upcoming AirDrop-style sharing feature called Nearby Sharing. The video of the unannounced feature shows a number of photos and a video file being sent between a Pixel 2 XL and a Pixel 4, although XDA notes that the feature has also been seen working on a OnePlus device. Despite how useful AirDrop is, so far, Android has struggled to find much success with its own alternative. Its NFC-based take on the feature was discontinued in Android 10, and although Google’s Files app includes similar functionality, it’s not quite the same as having it baked it at the OS level. There have been reports that Google is working on an AirDrop competitor for Android for a little while, but this is the first time we’ve had the chance to see it in action. In the video, Nearby Sharing is shown built right into Android’s quick settings menu. It doesn’t seem to be in a finished state just yet — the video shows it failing at least once when trying to send a video file — but once the transfer starts, it’s a fairly quick transfer over Wi-Fi. The feature says that it’s designed to work best when the two devices are within one foot of each other, but there are also options to restrict your device’s visibility if you don’t want strangers to be able to send you files using the feature. Google isn’t the only player in the Android ecosystem that’s thought to be working on an AirDrop competitor. Just this morning XDA-Developers reported that Samsung has a file-sharing standard of its own called Quick Share, and last year, a trio of China’s biggest smartphone manufacturers — Xiaomi, Oppo, and Vivo — announced that they were working on their own protocol. The advantage Nearby Sharing has is that it should eventually be available on phones from every Android manufacturer, rather than being limited to just a small group of them, or even just one in the case of Samsung. There’s no word on when the feature might be officially released (or even announced), but given it’s already in a working state, it can’t be too far away.+++2
Google I/O 2020 will kick off on May 12th 5 It takes place from May 12 through May 14th By Jay Peters  Jan 23, 2020, 7:05pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Illustration: Alex Castro / The Verge Google has just revealed that its next I/O developer conference will take place from May 12th to May 14th. The company revealed the date after users participated in its annual I/O teaser, which this year was a collaborative online game to restore a fictional satellite network. When the game was completed, the constellation of satellites spelled out the date. Image: Google In a tweet, Google CEO Sundar Pichai said I/O 2020 will be at the Shoreline Amphitheatre, which is in Mountain View near Google’s HQ and is where Google has hosted the event for the past few years. Sundar Pichai  @sundarpichai Cosmos aligned. We'll be back at Shoreline Amphitheatre in Mountain View for this year's #GoogleIO on May 12-14! Embedded video 4,754 4:04 PM - Jan 23, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 1,045 people are talking about this Arguably the biggest news of I/O 2019 was the announcement of the budget-friendly Pixel 3A and 3A XL, which my colleague Dieter Bohn found to be a decent phone with a great camera. There are already rumors swirling about a potential Pixel 4A, including that it may have a hole-punch display, a 3.5mm headphone jack, and a square camera bump. 9to5Google reported that it may arrive at around the same time as the Pixel 3A did last year, so the 4A seems like a possible candidate for an I/O reveal. Last year, we also saw the reveal of the Nest Hub Max, so perhaps Google will announce more Nest hardware at I/O 2020 as well. At I/O, Google also typically shows off upcoming updates to Android as well as other updates to its software and services.+++2
Transcription service Rev is raising prices for the first time to $1.25 a minute 7 Up from $1 By Nick Statt@nickstatt  Jan 23, 2020, 7:13pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Image: Rev Online transcription service Rev is raising its prices for the first time ever, from $1 a minute to $1.25. The price hike was disclosed in a message the company sent to Rev transcribers on Thursday outlining the change and assuring the contract workers that this is not expected to significantly impact the number of job orders available. The company, which has been around since 2010, is one of the leading online transcription services, and it made its name largely off its advertised $1 per minute rate. “We’ve already spoken with dozens of clients. They seem to get it: companies raise prices. Rev has been charging $1 per minute since we launched almost a decade ago and that’s been far less than our competition,” reads Rev’s message to transcribers. “So, while we suspect some may not like it, based on the conversations we’ve had we also anticipate the negative response to be fairly limited. For you, that means Revvers shouldn’t expect a noticeable drop in the number of jobs available.” “WE ALSO ANTICIPATE THE NEGATIVE RESPONSE TO BE FAIRLY LIMITED.” To help offset any negative effects of its price hike, Rev says that it will start paying its transcribers “more on average” starting in March, yet not across the board and only for “harder jobs.” Rev did not elaborate on this distinction. The company says it is also going to make its grading system fairer, among other changes designed to make transcribing for Rev more manageable. Yet one Rev transcriber who spoke with The Verge on Thursday said some workers are “quite unhappy” with the change, considering Rev will be earning more money per minute transcribed while base pay for all transcriptions will remain the same. Pricing and pay rates are particular hot button issues for Rev and its labor force. The company found itself embroiled in controversy this past November for a series of damning reports about working conditions for its contract labor force, starting with the news that the company would be slashing its minimum pay rate from 45 cents per minute transcribed to 30 cents. Following that, an investigation from The Verge found that Rev transcribers were routinely subjected to disturbing audio recordings without adequate mental health benefits or even without any warning prior to the recording. The audio clips have included such incidents as violent police recordings, descriptions of child abuse, and graphic medical videos. A day later, Rev banned people under the age of 18 from transcribing for its service; prior to the rule change, loose labor law allowed minors to do contract labor like the kind Rev uses to supply customers.+++2
Rocket League is killing online multiplayer on macOS and Linux 18 It will stop working in March By Jay Peters  Jan 23, 2020, 3:33pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Image: Pysonix Today, Epic Games-owned Psyonix announced that it will stop supporting Rocket League on macOS and Linux starting in March. Psyonix says it will release a final patch on both platforms that month that will turn off online features, which means you won’t be able to play online multiplayer anymore. You’ll still be able to play matches with your friends sitting in front of your computer, though. According to a support document, here is what will still work after the patch: Local Matches Split-Screen Play Garage/Inventory (existing items will not be removed from your inventory) Career Stats Replays Steam Workshop Maps (downloaded before the final patch) Custom Training Packs (downloaded before the final patch) And here’s what won’t work after the patch: Online Matchmaking Private Matches Tournaments Rocket Pass Item Shop / Esports Shop In-Game Events Friends List Clubs News Panel New Custom Training Packs New Steam Workshop Maps Leaderboards League Rankings In its announcement post, Psyonix said that “it is no longer viable for us to maintain support for the macOS and Linux (SteamOS) platforms.” And in the support article, it said “we want Rocket League to be the best experience possible for all our players. This includes adapting to use new technologies.” But those statements don’t tell us anything about why the studio is pulling online features for Rocket League from macOS and Linux. Dropping support for two platforms is kind of ironic because Rocket League was the poster child for cross-platform online multiplayer games. Sony had long claimed that supporting cross-platform multiplayer between Xbox and PS4 would be up to the developers. But a Psyonix VP proved that was wrong in 2016, revealing to IGN that the game was “at the point where all we need is the go-ahead on the Sony side and we can, in less than a business day, turn it on and have it up and working no problem.” But that Sony hadn’t approved it. (Sony finally allowed cross-platform play for Rocket League last January.) Epic Games, the creator of the smash-hit Fortnite, bought Psyonix last May. At the time, it was unclear how long Rocket League would remain on Steam before presumably becoming an Epic Games Store exclusive on PC. But for now, it’s still only available on Steam for PC, macOS, and Linux. If you bought a copy from Steam, you can continue to play that same copy online with a Windows PC.+++2
Read the report that concluded Saudi Arabia hacked Jeff Bezos’ phone 3 Here’s the full report from FTI Consulting By Jay Peters  Jan 23, 2020, 2:00pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Commemoration ceremony to mark first anniversary of Khashoggis murder in Istanbul Photo by Arif Hudaverdi Yaman/Anadolu Agency via Getty Images This week, The Guardian posted a huge story reporting that Saudi Arabia hacked Jeff Bezos’ phone in May 2018 after he received a message from Saudi Arabia’s Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. A report published by the security forensics firm FTI Consulting concluded with “medium to high confidence” that was the case. If you want to read the report yourself, you can do so right here, thanks to Vice, which obtained the report in its entirety exclusively on Wednesday. Page 1 of FTI Report into Jeff Bezos Phone Hack Contributed to DocumentCloud by Joseph Cox of Joseph Cox, Independent Journalist • View document or read text Some security professionals don’t think that FTI went far enough with its analysis, as reported by CyberScoop. Facebook’s former chief security officer Alex Stamos, for example, said that there was “no smoking gun” in the report. Some researchers said that FTI should have been able to analyze the encrypted file that the crown prince sent Bezos which reportedly hacked his phone. And one said he didn’t see evidence in the report to suggest that Bezos’ phone was hacked. Today, the White House also commented for the first time on the situation: Kaitlan Collins  @kaitlancollins The White House comments for the first time on the U.N. report tying the Saudi crown prince to the hack of Bezos's phone. “Saudi Arabia is obviously an important ally," Hogan Gidley says. "I don’t have any more information than that. Obviously we take this situation seriously.” 2,008 8:57 AM - Jan 23, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 1,219 people are talking about this Right now, this is a story with a lot of twists and turns, but I highly recommend reading my colleague Casey Newton’s analysis of the situation, where he gives the salient advice to never open a WhatsApp message from the crown prince of Saudi Arabia.+++2
TikTok’s licensing deal with Merlin will give the platform access to a huge indie music selection 1 Users now have more music than ever to choose from By Megan Farokhmanesh@Megan_Nicolett  Jan 23, 2020, 12:56pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Illustration by Alex Castro / The Verge TikTok has signed a deal with the digital rights agency Merlin that will give the platform access to a huge selection of independent music. Effective immediately, the agreement includes licensed music from tens of thousands of indie record labels worldwide. TikTok, home to parody videos, memes, lip syncing, and more through clips that last for only a matter of seconds, has steadily grown in popularity over the last few years. Music is a crucial part of the platform, whether it’s setting up a joke or launching a new meme. The platform has even helped launch musicians like Lil Nas X into stardom with breakout songs like “Old Town Road.” Merlin, one of the top global digital rights agencies for independent labels, licenses music to companies like Spotify, YouTube, and SoundCloud. Its members include labels such as Mad Decent, Better Noise, and AWAL. The agreement with Merlin marks the first time TikTok has announced a major music deal since its explosion in popularity; access to a bigger library gives TikTok a competitive edge against other music platforms. TikTok reportedly is in the process of negotiating new deals with the major labels, which is likely to be far more expensive as it’s evolved. ”This partnership with TikTok is very significant for us,” said Merlin CEO Jeremy Sirota in a prepared statement. “We are seeing a new generation of music services and a new era of music-related consumption, much of it driven by the global demand for independent music. Merlin members are increasingly using TikTok for their marketing campaigns, and today’s partnership ensures that they and their artists can also build new and incremental revenue streams.”+++2
Waymo is bringing its self-driving minivans and trucks to Texas and New Mexico 1 It feeds into Waymo’s ultimate quest to gain a toehold in more markets By Andrew J. Hawkins@andyjayhawk  Jan 23, 2020, 10:42am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Waymo is hitting the open road and bringing some of its self-driving minivans and long-haul trucks to two new states. The Alphabet subsidiary said in a tweet on Thursday that it would deploy a portion of its fleet in Texas and New Mexico as it seeks to learn about new road conditions and environments. It also feeds into Waymo’s ultimate quest to gain a toehold in more markets for the eventual launch of a commercial business. Waymo didn’t specify in which cities it will start testing its vehicles, nor did it explain what type of testing it will conduct. For example, last year, Waymo brought three of its self-driving Chrysler Pacifica minivans to Los Angeles but only to map the downtown area. “THESE ARE INTERESTING AND PROMISING COMMERCIAL ROUTES.” It’s especially notable that Waymo’s autonomous tractor-trailers are being deployed in two new states. The company has previously only tested its Class 8 trucks in California, Arizona, and Georgia, so the territorial expansion is sure to be good news for Waymo’s stated plans to eventually launch a commercial freight hauling business. “These are interesting and promising commercial routes, and we’ll be using our vehicles to explore how the Waymo Driver might be able to create new transportation solutions,” the company says. (“Waymo Driver” is the company’s shorthand for its autonomous vehicle hardware and software system.) The company isn’t a complete stranger to the great state of Texas. Waymo’s groundbreaking demonstration of its prototype Firefly vehicle with no steering wheel or pedals took place in Austin in October 2015. The company kept an office in the city until November 2019 when it abruptly shut it down. A reported 100 employees and contract workers lost their jobs as part of the decision, according to CNBC. John Krafcik  @johnkrafcik Somehow @JoannMuller always finds her way to the secret sauce. Good thing this time we had the 5th-gen Waymo Driver wrapped in our bespoke camo.@axios View image on Twitter 78 5:04 PM - Jan 22, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy See John Krafcik's other Tweets Perhaps more intriguingly, though, was a sneak peek at the company’s next-generation hardware suite in a tweet from Waymo CEO John Krafcik. The photo shows Krafcik along with Axios reporter Joann Muller standing in front of a Jaguar I-Pace electric vehicle with camouflaged sensors on the roof. In 2018, Waymo inked a deal with Jaguar Land Rover to purchase 20,000 I-Paces to be self-driving taxis. At the time, they said the new vehicles would officially become part of Waymo’s commercial ride-hailing service starting in 2020. The company is already testing the new vehicle on public roads around its Mountain View headquarters. With the electric SUVs primed to join the fleet later this year, there’s no better time to start showing off the latest member of the autonomous family. Waymo is expected to have more say about its fifth-generation vehicle in the months to come.+++2
How to FBI-proof your encrypted iPhone backups Keep it local By Barbara Krasnoff  Jan 23, 2020, 10:23am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Photo by Amelia Holowaty Krales / The Verge If you’re an iPhone user who is steadfast about retaining your privacy, you’re probably not very happy about the recent news that Apple is retaining the ability to decrypt most of what’s in an iCloud backup at the request of government entities, such as the FBI. In that case, you may want to pay attention to the adage that sometimes the best ways are the old ways. While it’s more convenient to use iCloud to back up your phone, you can back up your iPhone to your Mac or Windows computer and retain full control of your data backups. If you’ve always backed up via iCloud, or if you haven’t done a local backup in a while, you might be able to use a refresher course. Here’s how you do it. Connect your phone to your computer using its charging cable Fire up iTunes if you’re using Windows or a Mac with a macOS 10.14 or earlier; use Finder on a Mac with macOS 10.15 Catalina If you’re using Finder, open a Finder window (by either clicking on the Finder icon in your dock or selecting “File” > “New Finder Window” in the top Finder menu bar), and look for your iPhone in the left-hand menu under “Locations.” Using Finder to change your backup from iCloud to local. Using Finder to change your backup from iCloud to local. In iTunes, you should see a small iPhone icon in the upper left corner; select that. (If you don’t see it, you may need to authorize your system. Go to the top iTunes menu and select “Account” > “Authorizations” > “Authorize This Computer...” and follow the instructions.) Look for the phone icon in iTunes. Look for the phone icon in iTunes. After that, the process for either iTunes or Finder is much the same, although the look of the pages and the language will be slightly different. Look for the category labeled “Backups.” Select “This computer” (in iTunes) or “Back up all of the data on your iPhone to your Mac” (in Finder). You’re going to want to encrypt your backup for increased security. Check “Encrypt iPhone backup” (in iTunes) or “Encrypt local back” (in Finder) and enter a password. Don’t lose that password; otherwise, you’re going to lose access to your data. Once you set the encryption, it’s probable that the backup will start automatically. Otherwise, click on “Back Up Now.” Using iTunes to change your backup from iCloud to this computer. Using iTunes to change your backup from iCloud to this computer. If you need to restore your backup, just go to the same page and click on “Restore Backup...” Note that you can either manually back up your iPhone, or you can also have it automatically back up each time you connect it to your computer. Look for “Options” just below the “Backups” section, and select “Automatically sync when this iPhone is connected.” Once you’ve set up your backup to your computer, you probably want to delete any backups you’ve made to iCloud. To do this on your Mac: Click on the Apple icon in the top corner of your system Select “System Preferences” > “iCloud” Select the “Manage” button in the lower-right corner of the window Select a backup to delete, and select “Delete.” You’ll be asked to select “Delete” again; this will both delete all your backups from iCloud and turn off any further backups. To do this on your iPhone: Go to “Settings” and tap your name Select “iCloud” > “Manage Storage” > “Backups” Tap on a backup and then on “Delete Backup” Tap on “Turn Off & Delete” One more thing: dealing with iMessage without saving your data to iCloud can get a bit complicated, partly because iMessage uses end-to-end encryption (which means that it needs a key at either end) and partly because iMessage can also use Messages for iCloud, the feature that allows for syncing iMessage between multiple Mac or iOS devices with the same account. We consulted with Apple, and this is basically how it works: If you have iCloud Backup turned on, then your backup includes a copy of the key that protects your messages. This is the most convenient setup. But in this article, we’re assuming that you want to turn iCloud Backup off. If you have iCloud Backup turned off but Messages for iCloud turned on (which you can do on your iPhone by going to Settings, tapping on your name, and selecting “iCloud” > “iMessage”), your messages will be shared among all your devices, but your encryption key will remain local to those devices. According to Apple, that encryption key will not be saved to the company’s servers. If you have both iCloud Backup and Messages for iCloud turned off, then your only backup options will be local.+++2
Ted Cruz now has an impeachment podcast, too 24 It was recorded in the middle of the night By Jacob Kastrenakes@jake_k  Jan 22, 2020, 5:28pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Image: Verdict Impeachment podcasts are the hot new thing in podcasting, and now one of the actual impeachment jurors is getting in on the boom. Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX) launched a podcast today called Verdict with Ted Cruz, in which he sits across from a stupendously softball interviewer (“you are not only a senator, you are a constitutional lawyer, one of the brightest legal minds in the country”) and opines on the day’s impeachment proceedings. It sounds as though Verdict will be publishing daily throughout the trial. Cruz said today’s episode was recorded shortly after he left the first day of Senate proceedings, bringing him to the podcast studio at 2:42AM ET. Episodes will be recorded “as soon as I leave the Senate floor,” Cruz wrote on Twitter. With the immense interest around President Trump’s impeachment proceedings, many podcast studios and news outlets have found impeachment shows to be a quick way to build an audience. The audience built up on those podcast feeds will remain even after the proceedings end, and networks may be able to later redirect listeners to new political shows. Verdict gives Cruz a way to tap into that interest and offer what will certainly be a more slanted take on the day’s events than a traditional news podcast might. So far, the podcast has 879 subscribers on YouTube. It’s also available on Spotify, which doesn’t provide subscriber numbers.+++2
Seattle is the first area in the US where residents can vote via smartphones 30 King County, Washington residents will be able to vote from their phones for an upcoming board of supervisors election By Monica Chin@mcsquared96  Jan 22, 2020, 5:09pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options St Louis Cardinals v Seattle Mariners Photo by Steven Ryan/Getty Images King County, where Seattle is located, announced on Wednesday that it’s implementing smartphone voting for an upcoming board of supervisors election. King County’s 1.2 million residents can use their cellphones to vote in the election, which begins on January 22nd and continues until 8PM PT on February 11th. The program is a collaboration between King County Elections; the county’s conservation district; mobile-voting nonprofit Tusk Philanthropies; the National Cybersecurity Center; and Democracy Live, a technology firm that develops electronic balloting. THE PROGRAM IS A COLLABORATION BETWEEN THE COUNTY, A NONPROFIT, AND A TECHNOLOGY FIRM “It will be easier than ever for voters to access their Conservation District ballot and cast their vote,” said Julie Wise, King County director of elections, in a statement. “Here at King County Elections, we are always looking for ways to improve access and engage our voters and this election could be a key step in moving toward electronic access and return for voters across the region.” In an interview with NPR, Bradley Tusk, CEO and Founder of Tusk Philanthropies, emphasized the positive impact the technology could have on voter turnout. Per NPR, King County’s board of supervisors election has seen less than 1 percent of eligible voters turn out in past years. But the expansion of smartphone voting has met strong resistance, especially in the wake of the 2016 presidential election, during which Russian hackers infiltrated state voter registration systems, accessed the private emails of Clinton campaign staff, and engaged in numerous other cybercrimes. While there’s no evidence that Russia altered any votes in 2016, cybersecurity experts have cited the incidents as evidence that foreign powers might target US elections down the road. Of course, internet voting carries many of the same risks as other internet activity: links can be spoofed, devices can be compromised by malware, users can be impersonated, and systems can be DDoS’d. In 2018, the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine warned against all forms of online voting, recommending that US elections stick to paper ballots for the foreseeable future. The US Senate Intelligence Committee warned against the practice as well in its heavily redacted report on Russian election interference, which was released last July. The Democratic National Committee has also nixed proposals that would allow Iowa and Nevada to conduct virtual caucuses, citing security concerns. INTERNET VOTING CARRIES MANY OF THE SAME RISKS AS OTHER INTERNET ACTIVITY Virtual voting isn’t a new idea. In 2010, the DC Board of Elections and Ethics created an internet-based election portal and invited security experts to probe it for vulnerabilities. The board scrapped the portal after a University of Michigan student breached it. However, other counties have successfully implemented forms of smartphone voting. West Virginia allowed overseas voters to submit absentee ballots via a blockchain-based voting app called Voatz in the 2018 midterm election. Around 150 people voted that way, however, a small fraction of King County’s eligible electorate. Counties in Utah, Oregon, and Colorado have also tested mobile voting for small numbers of overseas voters. Another key difference: West Virginia’s online ballots went through an app dedicated to secure voting, which verified each voter’s identity via facial or fingerprint recognition. King County voters can submit through a mobile web portal, verifying their identities with their name, birthdate, and a signature. Democracy Live CEO Bryan Finney told NPR that officials in Washington will be able to verify signatures since the state votes entirely by mail. The elections office plans to count paper copies of all electronic ballots as well. The board of supervisors election is one of many “pilots” that Tusk plans to implement over the next five years in counties around the US. There’s no indication yet of whether King County plans to expand the system to statewide or national elections.+++2
Nintendo doesn’t have to refund digital preorders, according to European court 14 But the case has been appealed By Jay Peters  Jan 22, 2020, 3:55pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Photo by James Bareham / The Verge Nintendo fans in Europe got some bad news this week. A new court ruling sided with Nintendo’s ongoing practice to not let users cancel digital preorders (via Nintendo Everything). According to Norwegian gaming site PressFire, the consumer authorities of Norway and Germany sued Nintendo for not letting users cancel digital preorders purchased from the eShop. The case went to court at the end of last year. This week, the court ruled in favor of Nintendo, meaning it can continue the practice for now. PressFire reports that the German consumer authority has appealed the ruling. When the Norwegian Consumer Council first formally criticized Nintendo’s policy in 2018, it said that Nintendo’s policy conflicts with the EU’s Consumer Rights Directive, which requires that consumers must be able to cancel online purchases and receive refunds. Nintendo’s no-refunds policy is also in place for the US — in fact, Nintendo states that all sales of digital purchases on the Wii U, Nintendo 3DS, and Nintendo Switch are final — and Nintendo is the only console maker that doesn’t let customers cancel a digital preorder, which the Norwegian Consumer Council noted in its 2018 complaint. Nintendo told Polygon in 2018 that the Nintendo eShop in Europe is “fully compliant with European laws relating to the statutory rights of consumers.”+++2
Amazon Music passes 55 million customers as it chips away at Spotify and Apple Music 28 Amazon’s strategy is offering a plan for just about anyone By Chris Welch@chriswelch  Jan 22, 2020, 2:16pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Photo by Chris Welch / The Verge Amazon Music often doesn’t get the same buzz as Spotify or Apple Music, but the service is still growing rapidly and is catching up to those competitors at a rate that might surprise you. Amazon says its music service has now surpassed 55 million customers. There’s still a long way to go if Amazon wants to catch Spotify, which most recently reported 113 million paying customers (and 248 million monthly users overall) back in September. Apple last cited an Apple Music subscriber count of over 60 million, so Amazon is quickly chipping away at that lead. “Amazon doesn’t talk numbers that much,” Amazon Music boss Steve Boom told the Financial Times. “We felt like getting to this level of scale was something worth talking about.” That’s in large part because Amazon Music has one big factor in its favor: versatility. There are multiple rungs that make up Amazon Music, and the service gets to ride on the enormous popularity of Amazon’s Prime membership, which has become essential for many people. It’s also tightly integrated into the company’s Alexa voice assistant. Let’s take a look at the handful of choices you’ve got, from most expensive on down to free (with ads). Amazon Music HD: The step-up audiophile upgrade to Amazon Music Unlimited launched last fall for $14.99 monthly ($12.99 if you’ve got Prime) Amazon Music Unlimited: This is the true, proper Spotify and Apple Music rival and starts at the same $9.99-per-month price (or $7.99 for Prime subscribers). Amazon Music Unlimited subscriptions grew by over 50 percent in 2019, according to the company. Amazon Music Unlimited (single-device plan): Maybe you lead a life of simplicity and only want to listen to music on the Amazon Echo in your living room. One of the more novel plans offered by Amazon is the single-device subscription, which can be used on supported Echo and Fire TV devices for only $3.99 each month. You still get the same 50 million song selection as regular Unlimited customers, but you’re just (very) restricted on where you can listen to them. Amazon Music for Prime subscribers: Amazon Prime customers get on-demand, ad-free access to over 2 million songs through the Amazon Music service. There’s no added fee or subscription for this, apart from the regular Prime membership. It’s a nice perk if you’re not a picky listener and just want something without ads. Ad-sponsored Amazon Music: If you’re not a Prime person and don’t want to pay for music, Amazon still has something for you. The free, ad-supported tier of Amazon Music gives you access to top playlists and thousands of music stations; you just lose the convenience of listening to any song you want on demand. That’s five tiers, right there. And to reach its 55 million number, Amazon is tallying up the customers on all of them. International growth also appears to be strong. From Amazon’s news release: Amazon Music has grown nearly 50% year-over-year across the US, UK, Germany, and Japan, and has more than doubled in our newer countries such as France, Italy, Spain, and Mexico. Most of Amazon’s competitors have, at most, two plan options: free and paid. But as usual, Amazon is flooding the zone and hoping it can draw in every kind of music listener.+++2
Teeth aligning company SmileDirectClub is using NDAs to stifle bad reviews online 26 That seems out of alignment with the company’s feel-good image By Jay Peters  Jan 22, 2020, 1:48pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Image: SmileDirectClub SmileDirectClub, a Warby Parker-style company that sells 3D-printed teeth aligners online that are typically cheaper than braces, has asked some customers dissatisfied with the product to sign extremely restrictive nondisclosure agreements that stifle them from saying anything negative about the company in order to get a refund, according to a report from The New York Times published on Wednesday. An excerpt of a SmileDirectClub NDA included in the NYT’s story said that the person signing “will not make, publish, or communicate any statements or opinions that would disparage, create a negative impression of, or in any way be harmful to the business or business reputation of SDC or its affiliates or their respective employees, officers, directors, products, or services.” In an email to The Verge, a SmileDirectClub spokesperson says those parts of the agreement are “negotiable,” which is a good thing to know if you’re attempting to get a refund yourself. (If you find yourself unable to negotiate them away, please let us know.) For its story, The New York Times spoke to seven people who said SmileDirectClub’s teeth aligners didn’t work, and four said they had to get additional dental work to correct problems created by the aligners. I also thought it was wild that SmileDirectClub has apparently had over 1,670 Better Business Bureau complaints since 2014. SmileDirectClub’s aggressive tactics to shut down negative online conversation about its products also bring to mind tactics used by online mattress company Casper, as chronicled by Fast Company in 2017 (another story you should read, by the way). Casper sued three mattress bloggers who recommended other mattresses over Casper, alleging false advertising and deceptive practices. (Casper claimed the mattress bloggers were not properly disclosing financial relationships with companies whose products they were promoting over Casper’s.) Eventually, all three sites settled with Casper, though two of them took down their negative reviews and one was bought by a company that had financial support from Casper shortly before the settlement was finalized. Update, January 24th at 10:11 PM ET: Added detail from a SmileDirectClub spokesperson, and removed a comparison to the Better Business Bureau reviews for Align, which doesn’t quite seem fair given that more people are likely to complain about a direct-to-consumer service like SmileDirectClub than they are about a product only offered through their dentist — as opposed to complaining about their dentist directly.+++2
Rapid global response to the new coronavirus shows progress made since SARS Identifying the virus was easier this time, but containing it is still a challenge By Nicole Wetsman  Jan 22, 2020, 1:28pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Concern In China As Mystery Virus Spreads Photo by Kevin Frayer/Getty Images Scientists think the new virus spreading rapidly through Central China first became capable of infecting humans at the beginning of December. By December 31st, public health officials reported that they had patients with the then-unknown virus to the World Health Organization (WHO). Two weeks later, scientists had isolated and published the virus’s genetic sequence, determining that it was a type of virus called a coronavirus, which is part of the family of viruses that also caused the SARS outbreak. That fast turnaround highlights the progress made in biotechnology and in public health response to novel viruses over the past few decades. By comparison, the SARS virus emerged in November 2002, but it took until April 2003 for scientists to get a full genetic sequence. It took several months of disease spreading in Western Africa in 2013 before authorities determined it was caused by Ebola. It took around a year to identify Zika as the cause of illnesses in Brazil in 2014 and 2015. “It’s been extremely rapid,” says Kristian Andersen, director of infectious disease genomics at the Scripps Research Translational Institute. The process moved quickly even though it’s flu season in China, which likely made the process more complicated than usual. Clinicians had to first figure out that the illnesses they were seeing were unusual and not just caused by the normal flu. “I’ve been quite impressed by how fast this whole response went. It’s extremely difficult, to realize you have an outbreak, be able to isolate the virus, sequence it, and share data. This is not easy.” “I’VE BEEN QUITE IMPRESSED BY HOW FAST THIS WHOLE RESPONSE WENT” Epidemiologists are pouring attention into the virus because they fear it could be a serious health threat. So far, China’s health authorities report that over 500 people have been infected with the new virus, and 17 people have died. Cases have also been confirmed in South Korea, Japan, Taiwan, and Thailand in people who had recently returned from China. One case has been reported in the US in Washington state. The virus can cause a high fever and difficulty breathing in severe cases, while mild cases may look more like a common cold. Early cases were linked to a seafood market in Wuhan, a city in Central China. The response shows the improvements China has made in its public health system since SARS. At that time, there was limited infrastructure in place. But after the outbreak, billions were invested in infectious disease facilities and reporting systems across the country. The country also disclosed the new virus to WHO almost immediately. With SARS, the Chinese government attempted to conceal the extent of the outbreak and hid cases from WHO inspectors. “Compared to back when SARS came around, certainly China has improved tremendously. It probably has one of the best public health systems in the world,” Andersen says. The US might be able to respond as quickly if it was faced with a novel virus, he says, but not faster. “Identifying the pathogen was done quickly, which shows the capacity that China has now. The sequencing was done rapidly. More importantly, it was shared immediately. That’s why Korea, Japan, and Thailand were able to diagnose cases so quickly,” Tedros Adhanom, director general of the WHO, said in a press conference. Advances in genetic sequencing technologies also helped scientists quickly identify the new virus. It’s much easier to figure out the full sequence of a virus than it was even a few years ago, Andersen says. Once scientists had the full genetic sequence of the virus, they were able to quickly develop tests to diagnose the new coronavirus in people suspected of having the illness, which were published by WHO on January 17th. “It’s a domino effect, really,” says Timothy Sheahan, a coronavirus expert and assistant professor at the University of North Carolina Gillings School of Global Public Health. “New sequencing technologies make lots of different things more rapid.” That includes research on the new coronavirus. As soon as the sequences were published, scientists were able to send it off to companies that build synthetic viruses. “We can synthetically resurrect this virus outside of China and study its biology without having to rely on someone sending it in the mail,” Sheahan says. “The rate at which that happens is completely crazy.” Having information so soon after the new coronavirus jumped to humans may help officials start to contain it, Andersen says, by letting them know what they’re dealing with and allowing the development of diagnostic tests that confirm cases. “Having the ability to rapidly identify these viruses and identify that you have a new virus is helpful,” he says. But, he adds, speed can only do so much — especially if a virus is spreading directly from person to person, as this one is. “With that, it becomes very difficult to stop the spread no matter what you do.” THERE ARE STILL A LOT OF UNKNOWNS AROUND THE NEW VIRUS, INCLUDING UNCERTAINTY ABOUT HOW QUICKLY OR EASILY IT CAN PASS FROM PERSON TO PERSON There are still a lot of unknowns around the new virus, including uncertainty about how quickly or easily it can pass from person to person. That’s a key issue, Nancy Messonnier, director of the National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said during a press conference. An easily spread virus could create a broader epidemic. The emergence of the new virus is consistent with the around once-a-decade spread of a human coronavirus seen since the start of the century: SARS spread in 2002, and the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS), also caused by a coronavirus, circulated in 2012. Coronaviruses are common in animals and can be found in most wild species. But before SARS, the coronaviruses that infected humans only caused mild respiratory illnesses. Public health experts and virologists learned a lot from fighting both SARS and MERS in the past 20 years that can apply to the current outbreak. “The advancements we’ve made with MERS over the past seven years could be applicable here,” said Maria Van Kerkhove, manager in the Emerging and Re-Emerging Diseases Unit at the WHO, in a press conference. Importantly, the previous two coronaviruses also showed that these viruses can be dangerous. “SARS taught the world a lot of things, one of which is that coronaviruses can emerge and cause severe human disease,” Sheahan says. “People are more aware now.”+++2
Plastic giant Coca-Cola says people want its plastic Coca-Cola said it will continue selling drinks in plastic bottles By Justine Calma@justcalma  Jan 22, 2020, 12:34pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Coca-Cola (Flickr/Vox Vfx) Coca-Cola stood by its single-use plastic bottle at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. Speaking to the BBC, senior vice president Beatriz Perez shifted responsibility for the mountains of plastic they produce on consumers. Customers are thirsty for drinks bottled in resealable, lightweight plastic, she said, emphasizing that Coca-Cola has no plans to abandon plastic, single-use packaging. “Business won’t be in business if we don’t accommodate consumers,” Perez told the BBC. “So as we change our bottling infrastructure, move into recycling and innovate, we also have to show the consumer what the opportunities are. They will change with us.” 200,000 BOTTLES A MINUTE Coca-Cola makes about 3 million tons of plastic packaging a year. That’s roughly 200,000 bottles a minute, the BBC reports. Last year, Coca-Cola was ranked the world’s top plastic-polluting corporation in an audit by the campaign Break Free from Plastic. Beverage giants Nestle and PepsiCo come in second and third, respectively. Plastic packaging is collecting in the ocean, and plastics are even winding up in the bellies of sea life. But while other companies like Starbucks are figuring out how to make at least a partial shift to reusable containers — even at the risk of hurting their bottom line — Coca-Cola is sticking with its single-use containers. Instead, they’re focused on recycling. Coca-Cola plans to use 50 percent recycled material in its packaging by 2030. By that date, the company said it will also collect and recycle the equivalent of every bottle or can it sells globally. And in 2019, both Coca-Cola and PepsiCo committed to rolling out aluminum containers for water as a way to cut down on plastic pollution. But even with those changes, based on Perez’s comments at Davos, plastic will still play a major role in Coca-Cola’s future. The reality is that neither recycling nor switching to another material like aluminum will be a cure-all for all the trash generated by single-use products. Aluminum can be recycled indefinitely, but extracting and refining virgin aluminum can leave behind an even bigger environmental footprint than plastic. And even when you toss a plastic bottle in the recycling bin, it most likely won’t come back as a new plastic bottle. Less than 10 percent of all plastics that have ever been thrown away have had a second life. Recycling has gotten even harder since China stopped taking much of the world’s recyclables in 2018, so now there’s a bigger chance of that bottle winding up in a landfill or the ocean. The best bet to reduce plastic pollution is fewer bottles in the first place, and that’s probably not what Coca-Cola wants to hear.+++2
NASA administrator on the year ahead: ‘A lot of things have to go right’ 2 Jim Bridenstine tells us what to expect for 2020 By Loren Grush@lorengrush  Jan 22, 2020, 12:20pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options NASA has a big to-do list for 2020, as the agency continues to build its Artemis program with the goal of sending the first woman to the Moon by 2024. This year, NASA also hopes to start launching its astronauts from the US again, after nearly a decade of launching them to space on Russian vehicles. It’s still unclear if NASA will meet all the ambitious deadlines it has set for itself. THE AGENCY HAS ALREADY STARTED OFF 2020 STRONG Yet, the agency has already started off this year strong. This weekend, SpaceX launched a crucial flight test for NASA that could pave the way for the company to start launching the space agency’s astronauts sometime this year. That puts NASA in a good starting position, though there’s still quite a lot of work to be done. The Verge spoke with NASA administrator Jim Bridenstine about what we can expect for 2020 and how confident he is that the agency can meet its ambitious timelines. This conversation has been lightly edited for clarity. This is the first big flight for NASA this year. How does that set the tone for the year ahead? I think it went as well as it could have gone. Of course, I always have to say we’ve got a lot more data to go through. But you know, we had an end-to-end test of a launch abort system, which is the most complicated and most dynamic environment that we’re going to fly in. All of the data that’s coming in, it looks like everything is right down the middle where it ought to be. So I think it’s good for the agency to see an end-to-end very successful mission. Now, the Starliner [flight test] did end well. But obviously, it didn’t have the exact flight profile we were hoping for. How was experiencing this test after going through that test in December? I know you haven’t ever heard me say this before, but we do need to launch American astronauts on American rockets from American soil. Now, this test puts us in a position where if everything comes back according to what we believe it’s going to come back. The desire and the reality are now converging in a way that otherwise would not necessarily be possible. So the probability of success is going to go way up if all of the data comes back, and it looks as good as it appeared on the launch and the reentry. SpaceX’s Falcon 9 rocket launching as part of the in-flight abort test. Image: SpaceX You guys have a busy year ahead, and you just got approval for part of the funding that you’re looking for for Artemis. How are you hoping to use that funding, and what can we expect from the budget process as you formalize that? So the 2020 budget finally got done, which is better than being in a [continuing resolution] for a full year. We at least got it done before halfway through the year anyway — the fiscal year. On the positive side of things, we do have, for the first time since 1972, a human landing system for the Moon that is funded at a significant level: $600 million. And we are certainly very grateful to the House and the Senate for, in a bipartisan way, coming together to make that happen. We did request a billion dollars, so we didn’t get everything we were hoping for. What we’ve got to look at is how we’re doing the acquisition process and then figure out if there’s anything we can do differently to make sure that we are putting ourselves in the highest probability of success to land the next man and the first woman on the Moon by 2024. “EVEN IN THAT CHALLENGING YEAR, WE DID VERY WELL.” But the other thing we need to go back and look at is the 2021 budget to see what we need to do in the 2021 budget to make sure we’re moving forward. The good thing about 2021 is the Commerce, Justice, Science appropriations will not have the Census in it. So there’s billions of dollars there that get occupied every 10 years. So 2020 was a challenging year for the Commerce, Justice, Science appropriations bill. That being said, even in that challenging year, we did very well. Our budget went up with bipartisan support. We kept the human landing system funded to $600 million. 2021 is going to be an even bigger year, and we’re going to need a bigger budget. We’re working with OMB, the vice president’s staff, and the National Space Council. I think we’re going to get a really good budget. I know a lot of lawmakers have been asking for the full five-year plan for Artemis. Is that something we can expect from this request coming out? Yeah, you’ll see how we’re going to spend money five years into the future. What about in terms of the schedule for human landers? I saw you recently noted that because the full $1 billion wasn’t funded, you might ask companies to fund a little bit more themselves. Is that still the plan? And when can we expect those decisions to be made? It’s a wonderful question. What I will tell you is that we have received proposals from a broad agency announcement that we put out, which puts us now in a blackout period, and I really don’t want to comment on that while we’re in the blackout period. So I’ll just have to have to leave it at that. As we’re getting closer to 2024, how are you feeling about the chances of meeting that deadline? It’s good. A lot of things have to go right, make no mistake. But we have the SLS core stage complete, which was a huge milestone that took forever, but we finally got there. It’s now at Stennis [Space Center in Mississippi]. It’s in the vertical. We’ll do the budget rollout at Stennis with the SLS rocket ship. The completed SLS core stage being rolled out at Michoud Assembly Facility in Louisiana. Image: NASA We want to see that Green Run test move forward as fast as possible, and get the rocket to Cape [Canaveral], maybe even by the end of this year. Are there any thresholds that need to be met for the 2024 landing to definitely happen on time? I’ll tell you, it’s all based on funding. I think if you look at the history, the history is not that we don’t have great programs and great program managers and contractors that are doing great work. The history is always that the funding never matches the vision, and so the fact that we got $600 million in 2020 puts us in the game. The 2021 budget is even more important, and it’s going to have to be a lot bigger than $600 million. But then, of course, the SLS testing has to go well. The Orion crew capsule testing is going very, very well. And we got to get those projects in the Cape. And we’ve got to make sure that we get the Power and Propulsion Element of the Gateway complete. Is there any update on that? So far, it’s going well. But it’s still early. We have to make sure that we get that Power and Propulsion Element complete, and then the big thing is the lander. “A LOT OF PEOPLE HAVE SUGGESTED THAT IT CAN’T BE DONE.” A lot of people have suggested that it can’t be done. But I would argue that if you look at what happened in the 1960s, we got the directive from President Kennedy to do it within a decade, and we did it within eight years. And at the time, we didn’t have the Johnson Space Center. We didn’t have a Saturn V rocket. We didn’t have really the knowledge of orbital physics the way we understand it today. We didn’t have the miniaturization of computing power or power density capabilities that we have today. We have so many advantages today that we didn’t have back then. We just have to make it happen. But again, we can’t do it without the budget. I think we are well within the realm of what is possible. But a lot of things have to go right. Not everything has to go right, but a lot of things have to go right, starting with getting a good 2021 budget. You talked about how the funding hasn’t matched, but there also have been delays with Boeing on the SLS. The launch date is no longer 2020, or it’s definitely going to be 2021... It’ll be 2021. So are there any concerns about further delays there? Or do you feel confident that they will stick to the schedule? We’re through the toughest part. Again, it depends on what we learn in testing. But I think what we’re going to be able to do on testing is we’re going to be able to make modifications that the system is designed to be modified if necessary. But we could learn things that would pose a threat. And the question is, how do you get those things fixed? I don’t anticipate that happening. But what we know throughout history is that those kinds of things do pop up, and we’ve got to get them fixed. But again, we did it in the 1960s with a fraction of the capability that we have today, so I think it can be done. What can we expect from NASA this year, and what do you hope people take away from the agency? You want me to say it again? We need to launch American astronauts again, and this is the year to do it. We have two dissimilar providers that give us a high probability of having that be successful. We are so grateful for what SpaceX has done and what Boeing has done. They’ve both put us in a great position to be successful. We need to see the Green Run test get finished. We need to accelerate it as much as possible and get that rocket to the Cape. And then we need to see amazing progress on the Gateway and figure out how we’re going to purchase a human landing system that can get us to the Moon within four years and 11 months. It’s definitely possible, but we’ve got to get after it and in a meaningful way. We’re going to launch Mars 2020 this year. That’s a big development. It will land in 2021, but we’re going to launch it this year. And for the first time, we’re going to make oxygen on Mars. We’re going to have a Mars helicopter, which is phenomenal itself. So there’s going to be a lot of exciting things that will be launched and ready to go for 2021.+++2
Google publishes largest ever high-resolution map of brain connectivity 3 It’s a fruit fly brain, but it’s still impressive By James Vincent  Jan 22, 2020, 11:06am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options The new ‘connectome’ maps some 25,000 neurons in a fruit fly’s brain, a portion of which are shown here. Image: Google / FlyEM Scientists from Google and the Janelia Research Campus in Virginia have published the largest high-resolution map of brain connectivity in any animal, sharing a 3D model that traces 20 million synapses connecting some 25,000 neurons in the brain of a fruit fly. The model is a milestone in the field of connectomics, which uses detailed imaging techniques to map the physical pathways of the brain. This map, known as a “connectome,” covers roughly one-third of the fruit fly’s brain. To date, only a single organism, the roundworm C. elegans, has had its brain completely mapped in this way. Connectomics has a mixed reputation in the science world. Advocates argue that it helps link physical parts of the brain to specific behaviors, which is a key goal in neuroscience. But critics note it has yet to produce any major breakthroughs, and they say that the painstaking work of mapping neurons is a drain on resources that might be better put to use elsewhere. “The reconstruction is no doubt a technical marvel,” Mark Humphries, a neuroscientist at the University of Nottingham, told The Verge. But, he said, it’s also primarily a resource for other scientists to now use. “It will not in itself answer pressing scientific questions; but it might throw up some interesting mysteries.” The 3D map produced by Google and the FlyEM team at Janelia is certainly a technical achievement, the product of both automated methods and laborious human labor. The first step in creating the map was to slice sections of fruit fly brain into pieces just 20 microns thick, roughly a third the width of a human hair. Fruit flies are a common subject in connectomics as they have relatively simple brains about the size of a poppy seed but display complex behaviors like courtship dances. These slices of brain are then imaged by bombarding them with streams of electrons from a scanning electron microscope. The resulting data comprises some 50 trillion 3D pixels, or voxels, which are processed using an algorithm that traces the pathways of each cell. IT TOOK TWO YEARS FOR SCIENTISTS TO “PROOFREAD” THE 3D MODEL Despite Google’s algorithmic prowess, it still took substantial human labor to check the software’s work. The company says it took two years and hundreds of thousands of hours for scientists at Janelia to “proofread” the 3D map, verifying the route of each of the 20 million chemical synapses using virtual reality headsets and custom 3D editing software. Even then, the resulting map only covers a portion of the fruit fly’s brain, known as the hemibrain. In total, a fruit fly’s brain contains 100,000 neurons, while a human brain has roughly 86 billion. That suggests how far we are from creating a full connectome of our own neural pathways. Joshua Vogelstein, a biomedical engineer and co-founder of the Open Connectome Project, told The Verge that the work would be a boon to scientists. Vogelstein said that in the decade to come, the data provided by such projects would finally start to yield results. “I believe people were impatient about what [connectomes] would provide,” said Vogelstein. “The amount of time between a good technology being seeded, and doing actual science using that technology is often approximately 15 years. Now it’s 15 years later and we can start doing science.” Google and the FlyEM team have made the data they collected available for anyone to view and download. The group has also published a pre-print paper describing their methodology, and say they’ll be publishing more papers on their work in the weeks to come.+++2
The final season of Star Wars: The Clone Wars gets a new trailer and February release date Ahsoka Tano gets a new home on Disney+ By Julia Alexander  Jan 22, 2020, 10:13am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Dave Filoni’s Star Wars: The Clone Wars is one of the most beloved entries in the expansive Star Wars universe, and a new trailer for its final season hints that fans will get the closure they’ve always wanted. The Clone Wars will return for its seventh and final season on February 21st. The trailer brings back some of The Clone Wars’ most popular characters, including Darth Maul, Anakin Skywalker, Yoda, and, of course, Ahsoka Tano. Tano is best known as Anakin’s padawan who represents equality during a turbulent time. One of the final shots of the trailer teases a showdown between Darth Maul and Ahsoka Tano as the series prepares to come to an end. ‘THE CLONE WARS’ WILL HAVE TO TIDE OVER FANS OF DISNEY’S BIGGER FRANCHISES The Clone Wars takes place in between the events of Star Wars: Episode II — Attack of the Clones and Star Wars: Episode III — Revenge of the Sith. The story is based on the intergalactic war that is transpiring (the Clone Wars), which Obi-Wan Kenobi references in Star Wars: A New Hope. The series ran for six seasons between 2008 and 2014, but it was canceled before Filoni and his team of writers got the chance to end their story. The show has since been revived for Disney+, Disney’s streaming service, where it will live among other Star Wars shows, including The Mandalorian and older episodes of shows like The Clone Wars and Rebels. The end of The Mandalorian’s first season hinted at ties between the two series, which could be explored in the upcoming Clone Wars finale and future seasons of the live-action show. The Clone Wars is a big deal for Star Wars fans. It’s also one of the bigger shows coming to Disney+ in the first half of 2020. The Clone Wars will have to tide over fans of Disney’s bigger franchises (Star Wars, Disney, Pixar) until WandaVision and The Falcon and the Winter Solider hit the streaming service in the second half of the year. Whether The Clone Wars can drive the same kind of success on Disney+ that The Mandalorian did is yet to be seen. All six seasons of The Clone Wars are available to stream right now.+++2
UN calls for immediate investigation into Saudi role in Jeff Bezos hack 31 A spyware-laced WhatsApp message led to an alleged blackmail campaign By Russell Brandom  Jan 22, 2020, 9:48am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options US-IT-lifestyle-Amazon-internet-technology-economy-computers MARK RALSTON/AFP via Getty Images A 2018 spyware attack on Jeff Bezos’ phone escalated into an international scandal on Wednesday, as United Nations human rights experts issued a stern statement criticizing the government of Saudi Arabia for allegedly conducting the hack. “The information we have received suggests the possible involvement of the Crown Prince in surveillance of Mr. Bezos, in an effort to influence, if not silence, The Washington Post’s reporting on Saudi Arabia,” the statement reads. “The alleged hacking of Mr. Bezos’s phone, and those of others, demands immediate investigation by US and other relevant authorities.” The Saudi government has denied any role in the hack. “A CONCRETE EXAMPLE OF THE HARMS ... OF SPYWARE” “This reported surveillance of Mr. Bezos, allegedly through software developed and marketed by a private company,” the statement continues, “is, if true, a concrete example of the harms that result from the unconstrained marketing, sale and use of spyware.” The report also mentions two former Twitter employees who were charged with spying on behalf of the Saudi government, which investigators take as evidence of a broader campaign by the country. According to the report, the hack was part of a broader campaign to blackmail Bezos into softening The Washington Post’s coverage of Saudi Arabia in the months leading up to the killing of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi. Private messages and photos from Bezos were later leaked to the National Enquirer, something Bezos described in a public Medium post as part of an attempted blackmail scheme. The technical evidence for Saudi Arabian involvement comes from a report by Bezos’ personal security consultants, which was published in full by Motherboard and reported on further by The New York Times and Financial Times. According to the report, Bezos met Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman in Los Angeles in April 2018 and exchanged phone numbers. About a month later, he received an unexpected video from Salman, which the report alleges was infected with targeted spyware. Immediately after viewing the video, large amounts of data began to export from Bezos’ phone, an activity that could not be explained by cloud backups or other normal activity. The following November, just over a month after Khashoggi’s killing, Salman sent Bezos another strange WhatsApp message. It was a single picture of a woman resembling Lauren Sánchez, Bezos’ mistress and the subject of the subsequent National Enquirer piece, bearing a cryptic caption: “Arguing with a woman is like reading the software license agreement. In the end you have to ignore everything and click I agree.” A separate message sent in February after Bezos’ Medium post seems to seek to deescalate the situation. “It’s not true,” Salman wrote, “there is nothing against you or Amazon from me or Saudi Arabia.” The consultants’ report suggests Bezos’s phone may have been hacked using Pegasus spyware, a powerful private malware offered without judicial oversight by the Israeli firm NSO Group. NSO is one of the most notorious current vendors of spyware for hire, and it has been the subject of widespread criticism for its role in undermining cybersecurity on behalf of oppressive regimes. In a statement provided to The Verge, NSO Group denied any involvement with the hack. “NSO is shocked and appalled by the story that has been published,” the company said. “We can say unequivocally that our technology was not used in this instance. These types of abuses of surveillance systems blacken the eye of the cyber intelligence community and put a strain on the ability to use legitimate tools to fight serious crime and terror.” In October, WhatsApp brought a lawsuit against NSO for allegedly hacking users through unreported vulnerabilities. “WhatsApp will continue to do everything we can within our code, and within the courts of law, to help protect the privacy and security of our users everywhere,” WhatsApp chief Will Cathcart said at the time.+++2
Netflix reveals that 76 million people watched at least two minutes of The Witcher 22 It’s Netflix’s best first season of television ever By Chaim Gartenberg@cgartenberg  Jan 21, 2020, 4:49pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Netflix’s fourth quarter 2019 earnings are here, and so are the first official numbers for Netflix’s latest streaming hit The Witcher. The company says the series was watched by 76 million households, making it the most-watched first season of television ever for Netflix. That’s according to Netflix’s newly unveiled definition of “watched,” which it changed from “watched 70 percent of a single episode of a series” to anyone who “chose to watch and did watch for at least 2 minutes.” In explaining the new metric, Netflix notes that the two-minute time period is meant to be “long enough to indicate the choice was intentional,” and it says that it follows similar metrics used by BBC’s iPlayer, YouTube, and The New York Times’ measurements of page views. But the reasoning behind the change is obvious: to juice viewer numbers, with Netflix acknowledging that the new two-minute metric is “about 35% higher on average than the prior metric.” WHAT COUNTS AS A “WATCH,” ANYWAY? To put that number in perspective, two minutes of The Witcher is less time than it takes to reach the opening credits of the first episode; the action-packed cold opening is coincidentally two minutes and 16 seconds long. By Netflix’s new metric, anyone who watched just the opening scene of the episode (or 3.2 percent of the total runtime of the episode, which is itself one of eight episodes) is now counted as a view for the entire season. That is also shorter than the amount of time it would take to listen to the hit song “Toss a Coin to Your Witcher,” which is also featured in the series. Still, no matter how you slice it, 76 million households in the first four weeks is a lot of eyes on The Witcher, which Netflix says is “tracking to be our biggest season one TV series ever.” And apparently that’s enough for Netflix to invest in the show for the long haul, as Netflix CEO Reed Hastings said The Witcher is a “massive new franchise that we’ll develop season after season” in a video interview today. It was renewed for a second season before season one aired, but Hastings’ comments seem to indicate that it will be a multi-season show. The company also announced that 6 Underground from director Michael Bay and starring Ryan Reynolds was viewed by 83 million households in its first four weeks (using the company’s new metric). By comparison, Netflix expected The Irishman to hit just 40 million views in its first month out, although that doesn’t factor in the 35 percent boost 6 Underground’s numbers get from the new two-minute metric.+++2
Journalist Glenn Greenwald charged with cybercrimes for reporting in Brazil Authorities claim Greenwald colluded with phone hackers By Adi Robertson@thedextriarchy  Jan 21, 2020, 12:52pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options BRAZIL-POLITICS-CORRUPTION-INTERCEPT-GREENWALD Photo credit should read EVARISTO SA/AFP via Getty Images Brazilian prosecutors have charged journalist Glenn Greenwald with violating cybercrime laws, The New York Times reports. The complaint reportedly claims Greenwald was part of a “criminal organization” that hacked public officials’ phones — an accusation apparently linked to Greenwald’s extensive reporting for The Intercept on Brazilian politics. Last year, The Intercept published a string of damning reports on an anti-corruption task force and a judge who is now President Jair Bolsonaro’s justice minister, based on leaked documents, chat messages, and other information obtained by an anonymous source. The Washington Post reported that Greenwald faced threats of retaliation for the work, and in July, the Bolsonaro administration arrested four people for allegedly hacking the Telegram account of Justice Minister Sérgio Moro, saying that the hackers had provided The Intercept with documents. The Intercept refused to reveal the identity of its sources at that time, but it condemned the government’s “insinuations that The Intercept did anything in this matter other than exercise our right to practice journalism.” Greenwald posted a response to the charges on Twitter, calling the move “an attack on Brazilian democracy” and stating that his reporting would continue. “The Bolsonaro government and the movement that supports it has made repeatedly clear that it does not believe in basic press freedoms, he wrote — citing an earlier police report concluding that “I exercised extreme caution and professionalism as a journalist never even to get close to any criminality.” The Times reports that today’s criminal complaint accuses Greenwald of going beyond receiving and publishing leaked messages. Among other accusations, it argues that Greenwald was “communicating with the hackers while they were actively monitoring private chats on Telegram” and that he “encouraged the hackers to delete archives that had already been shared with The Intercept Brasil, in order to cover their tracks.” The latter charge echoes an American criminal allegation against WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange who was charged last year with helping whistleblower Chelsea Manning obtain confidential documents and who is widely seen as a test of how far legal protections for journalists reach. Greenwald came under US government scrutiny for his work with former National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden, with one lawmaker calling for his arrest in the aftermath of the leaks in 2013. But Greenwald, who currently lives in Brazil with his husband and two children, faces a much clearer legal threat now.+++2
Skip pulls back the curtain on the high costs of electric scooter maintenance 11 Skip says its old scooters required 26,000 parts to be replaced for every 1 million trips By Andrew J. Hawkins@andyjayhawk  Jan 21, 2020, 11:00am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Skip, an electric scooter rental startup that operates in and around Washington, DC, said it would start disclosing details about the maintenance and repair requirements of its fleet of two-wheelers. The company’s aim is to shine a light on the environmental impact of the electric scooter boom and challenge its rivals to build better scooters that last longer than the cheap, Chinese-made models that were deployed in the early days. Electric scooter companies like to boast about their commitment to the environment, frequently reminding riders that every two-wheeled trip they take can help reduce carbon emissions and fight climate change. But a recent study from North Carolina State University found that shared e-scooters are less environmentally friendly than bicycles, walking, and certain modes of public transportation. Riders don’t tend to see all of the emissions that are produced by the manufacturing, transportation, maintenance, and upkeep of dockless scooters. Skip wants to change that. Starting April 2020, the company says it will begin publishing a quarterly report detailing its consumption of spare parts. In doing so, Skip says it hopes to get other operators talking openly about sustainability, environmental impact, and consumption. “IT’S EASIER NOT TO GET INTO THE DETAILS.” “Our industry talks about improving sustainability, but operators are not required to report the environmental impact of all parts consumption, disposal, and recycling,” the company says in a blog post, including links to its rivals’ statements. “It’s easier not to get into the details.” The original scooters deployed by companies like Skip, Bird, and Lime — mostly sourced from Chinese companies like Xiaomi and Segway-Ninebot — weren’t built for shared use, so they were prone to breakdowns, often within weeks of being rolled out. As they struggle to keep afloat, the startups are scrambling to build a better scooter that can withstand heavy use. Bird and Lime each rolled out new vehicles they claim can last months in the field. When Skip first launched in late 2018, the company purchased thousands of Ninebot ES4 scooters that were cheap (they retail for under $800) and readily available. But the ES4 was intended for personal ownership, indoor storage, and occasional use, not the rigors and high-maintenance needs of shared outdoor fleets, Skip acknowledges. The trade-off, of course, was that Skip was now the owner of a fleet of scooters that required a lot of upkeep and repairs to stay in service. From September through November 2019, we averaged 627 Ninebot ES4s deployed in Washington DC, and each scooter was used 3.13 times for a total average of 1,962 trips a day. To keep these scooters running safely our operations team performed regular quality checks and replaced an average of 51 parts every day. This is the equivalent of 26,000 parts replaced per 1 [million] trips. Skip rolled out a more rugged, “purpose-built” scooter — the S3 — in April 2019. Its modular design allows for easy repairs as well as reductions of wasted parts. “We end up throwing away less of the vehicle when something is damaged by wear and tear, or vandalized,” the company’s CEO, Sanjay Dastoor, told The Verge at the time. “So the vehicle can last much longer.” SKIP SAYS IT ONLY CONSUMED 4,786 PARTS PER 1 MILLION TRIPS IN ITS FIRST TWO MONTHS OF TESTING Now, instead of consuming 26,000 parts per 1 million trips, Skip says it only consumed 4,786 parts per 1 million trips in its first two months of testing, thanks to the S3’s improved build. During those two months, the company says it disposed of or recycled 88 total parts. That translates to a 5X improvement over the Ninebot ES4. Skip says with more modifications and improvements, it anticipates that its fleet of S3 scooters will only require 1,541 parts per 1 million trips. “It’s still early, and we can’t yet extrapolate the long term impact of 4,786 spare parts per 1M trips. Some parts will require replacement due to wear and tear as the fleet ages,” the company says. “But thus far, all parts failures have been caused by vandalism or as the result of premature material failures.” It’s been a rough winter for the e-scooter industry, Skip included. Major operators like Lime, Bird, Uber, and Lyft have laid off workers and pulled out of markets as they become laser-focused on making their business profitable. Even the rollout of tougher, longer-lasting scooters hasn’t stopped any of the companies from bringing in less than money than they’re spending. Cities have also put pressure on the companies through their permitting process. Skip recently found itself left out of San Francisco’s permit program, despite being part of the city’s original pilot. The company wasn’t granted a permit and was forced to cease operations in the highly coveted market. Skip also pulled out of Austin and San Diego and is now focused exclusively on Washington, DC and surrounding towns like Alexandria and Arlington. Will the scooter companies follow Skip’s lead in being more transparent about the cots of doing business? It’s unclear, but it seems likely that even if they’re unwilling to do so voluntarily, they may end up having to disclose this data at the direction of the cities that hold sway over their permits. If that happens, Skip could end up looking ahead of the pack.+++2
Apple reportedly scrapped plans to fully secure iCloud backups after FBI intervention 36 Apple can’t read your device data, but it can read your backups By James Vincent  Jan 21, 2020, 8:58am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Illustration by Alex Castro / The Verge Apple reportedly dropped plans to fully secure users’ iPhone and iPad backups after the FBI complained about the initiative, reports Reuters. Apple devices have a well-deserved reputation for protecting on-device data, but backups made using iCloud are a different matter. This information is encrypted to stop attackers, but Apple holds the keys to decrypt it and shares it with police and governments when legally required. “LEGAL KILLED IT, FOR REASONS YOU CAN IMAGINE.” Privacy advocates like the Electronic Frontier Foundation have long criticized this arrangement, but Apple says it’s needed for when users are locked out of their account. For iCloud backups, “our users have a key and we have one,” said CEO Tim Cook in 2019. “We do this because some users lose or forget their key and then expect help from us to get their data back.” Back in 2018, Apple reportedly planned to close this loophole by applying the same end-to-end encryption used on devices to users’ iCloud backups — but the plan never moved forward. Reuters now says the iPhone maker reversed course after talking to the FBI about the issue. One former Apple employee told the publication: “Legal killed it, for reasons you can imagine.” The source said the decision was influenced by Apple’s long court battle in 2016 with the FBI over an iPhone belonging to one of the San Bernardino shooters. The FBI demanded that Apple build a backdoor into its own devices, but Apple refused, saying this would permanently undermine its security. Eventually, the FBI found its own way in. According to the former employee Reuters spoke to, Apple didn’t want to aggravate the FBI further by locking it out of iCloud backups. “They decided they weren’t going to poke the bear anymore,” said the source. In meetings with the agency, FBI officials told Apple that the plan would harm its investigations. The FBI and other law enforcement bodies regularly ask Apple to decrypt iCloud data, and in the first half of 2019, they requested access to thousands of accounts. Apple says it complies with 90 percent of such requests. APPLE CAN’T ACCESS USERS’ DEVICES, BUT IT CAN READ THEIR BACKUPS One former FBI official who was not involved with these talks told Reuters that Apple was won over by the agency. “It’s because Apple was convinced,” said the source. “Outside of that public spat over San Bernardino, Apple gets along with the federal government.” As mentioned earlier, Apple may have been motivated by user convenience for dropping fully encrypted backups, and Reuters says that, ultimately, it “could not determine why exactly Apple dropped the plan.” The report is timely considering confrontations between Apple and law enforcement agencies have sprung back to life this month, with the FBI demanding access to another phone, this one connected to a shooting at a Pensacola naval base last December. The White House has hit Apple hard on the issue, with Attorney General William Barr and President Donald Trump launching attacks on the company. “We are helping Apple all of the time on TRADE and so many other issues, and yet they refuse to unlock phones used by killers, drug dealers and other violent criminal elements,” Trump tweeted this month. Apple has rejected these criticisms, particularly Barr’s accusation that the company has provided no “substantive assistance” to the FBI. Reuters’ report about the company reversing plans to fully encrypt iCloud backups gives some credence to this claim. The Verge has reached out to Apple for comment.+++2
SpaceX successfully tests escape system on new spacecraft — while destroying a rocket 40 The company’s Falcon 9 slammed into the ocean By Loren Grush@lorengrush  Updated Jan 19, 2020, 10:56am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options On Sunday morning, SpaceX successfully launched one of its last big flight tests for NASA, a launch that could pave the way for the company to carry passengers into space later this year. The flight tested the emergency escape system on the company’s new passenger spacecraft, and SpaceX destroyed one of its Falcon 9 rockets in the process — on purpose. SpaceX was testing its new Crew Dragon capsule, a passenger spacecraft the company is developing for NASA’s Commercial Crew program. This weekend’s test, known as an in-flight abort test, helped to ensure that the Crew Dragon can keep its crew safe in the unlikely event of an emergency, a requirement before NASA will allow astronauts to fly on it. SpaceX mimicked a failed rocket launch, to show that its Crew Dragon can survive and protect its precious inhabitants inside. Early analysis of the test flight indicated that everything went according to plan. “As far as we can tell, it was a picture-perfect mission,” said SpaceX CEO Elon Musk in a press conference following the test. “WE WANT TO PRACTICE, PRACTICE, PRACTICE.” The Crew Dragon’s escape system is made up of eight SuperDraco engines, embedded in the outer hull of the capsule. These small thrusters are designed to fire if the Falcon 9 rocket carrying the capsule suffers a major failure during flight. The SuperDracos can propel the spacecraft up and away from the decaying rocket. Once the Crew Dragon is at a safe distance, the capsule can deploy its four main parachutes and lower itself gently into the Atlantic Ocean. A recovery boat would then meet up with the capsule and rescue the crew inside. SpaceX has tested out this escape system before, but only when the Crew Dragon was on the ground. The company and NASA wanted to see this process in action while the capsule is zooming into the sky on top of a rocket. That’s when the system will be needed most if a worst-case scenario happens in the future. Image: SpaceX At 10:30AM ET on Sunday from Cape Canaveral, Florida, SpaceX launched one of its used Falcon 9 rockets — which has been to space and back three times before — with a Crew Dragon on top. At 84 seconds after launch, when the rocket and capsule were feeling the most stress during flight, the SuperDracos fired and the rocket’s main engines cut off. The Crew Dragon then went through the entire escape routine and successfully splashed down in the Atlantic Ocean as planned. Thanks to the SuperDracos, the Crew Dragon traveled up to a mile away from the Falcon 9 it was flying on. The capsule reached twice the speed of sound during the test and reached a peak altitude of 131,000 feet, pulling up to 3.5 Gs at one point during the test. There were no people on board during this flight, though SpaceX did have two smart dummies inside the Crew Dragon to help gather data about how the maneuver would affect future crew members. Both the dummies and vehicle were recovered by boat following the splashdown. SpaceX expected to lose its Falcon 9 rocket during this test, and the vehicle burst into flames shortly after the Crew Dragon separated from the rocket. The rocket was fully fueled for this launch, causing the propellant to light up. The explosion occurred about 10 seconds after the Crew Dragon had separated from the rocket, so the capsule was a significant distance away at that point. An artistic animation of what happened during today’s abort test Image: SpaceX But Musk said the Crew Dragon could have survived if it had been right on top of the fireball. “Since the spacecraft has a very powerful base heat shield, it should not really be significantly affected by the fireball,” Musk said. “It could quite literally look like something out of Star Wars, where it flies right out of the fireball.” Musk also noted that the Crew Dragon could do an escape like at any point during the climb to space, right up until it’s deployed into orbit. WITH THIS TEST NOW COMPLETE, THE NEXT BIG FLIGHT OF THE CREW DRAGON WILL HAVE PEOPLE ON BOARD With this test now complete, the next big flight of the Crew Dragon will have people on board: NASA astronauts Bob Behnken and Doug Hurley. The pair watched the launch from Florida today, as did their families. “Our families were certainly watching from back home. Obviously, they’re keenly interested in those kinds of things,” Hurley said in a press conference after the launch. “You have a whole bunch of different things that go through your mind, emotions that you experience during a launch. This is a key one leading up to our launch, so I think that part of it is pretty exciting.” The date of Behnken and Hurley’s highly anticipated trip is still very much an open question, though. The Crew Dragon that will be used for that test is slated to be ready by the end of the February, according to Musk. And after the in-flight abort, SpaceX and NASA will need to review all the data and do additional paperwork, and SpaceX still has to do some more tests of its parachutes, which it upgraded last year. The company also has to accommodate other flights that are scheduled to launch to the International Space Station this year. However, Musk said that if all goes well, the first crewed flight on the Crew Dragon could take place in the second quarter of this year. In the meantime, NASA is looking to buy an additional seat on Russia’s Soyuz rocket to make sure the space agency has continued access to the space station. Since the retirement of the Space Shuttle in 2011, NASA has had to rely on Russia to transport the agency’s astronauts to and from the ISS. The Commercial Crew program is meant to return human spaceflight to the US, but until the vehicles are ready, NASA must rely on the Soyuz for a little while longer. Despite that reality, both NASA and SpaceX are getting excited about the prospect of finally flying people this year from Florida. “Anyone who has an adventurous bone in their body is going to be very excited about this,” said Musk.+++2
Apple is gearing up to fight the EU over the lightning connector 135 Honing in on USB-C and wireless charging By Cameron Faulkner@camfaulkner  Jan 17, 2020, 5:22pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Photo by James Bareham / The Verge Note: this story has been rewritten because a previous version contained substantially incorrect analysis. Please see the correction note below. We regret the error. Since 2009, the European Commission has been trying to convince tech companies to adopt a single charging method for our gadgets, primarily smartphones, in a quest to reduce the waste that comes when every new gadget you buy includes yet another AC adapter in the box. Now, Apple’s Lightning connector may be at risk. Back at the beginning of the decade, the commission was mostly successful in driving the voluntary adoption of the Micro-USB charging port, which became the standard on every non-Apple smartphone until the newer, more capable USB-C came along. That reduced the number of different cables and chargers a household needed to top up their devices. But in the view of Maroš Šefčovič, a vice president of the European Commission who is now proposing further regulation, voluntary agreements haven’t been enough. In a statement before the European Parliament on January 13th, Šefčovič argued that voluntary agreements from the industry weren’t doing enough. Apple, Google, Lenovo, LG, Motorola, Samsung and Sony all voluntarily agreed in 2018 to standardize on some form of USB-C charging by 2021, but allowed for things like Lightning to USB-C cables and adapters instead of changing the port on the phone itself. Šefčovič mentions that one of the outcomes might be to eliminate proprietary connectors( like Apple’s Lightning port, though he didn’t mention it by name). And he suggests that the EU might force manufacturers to stop shipping chargers with each new phone, which could be frustrating unless manufacturers know their customers would already have the right charger and cable for whatever smartphone they buy waiting for them at home. Apple’s not particularly happy about the threat of regulation, of course, and argues that we might not have shifted from Micro-USB to the more durable, versatile, and bidirectional Lightning and USB-C to begin with if they’d been forced to adopt a single standard back in 2009. Here’s the full statement the company issued Thursday, mirroring a very similar one Apple issued a year ago: Apple stands for innovation and deeply cares about the customer experience. We believe regulation that forces conformity across the type of connector built into all smartphones stifles innovation rather than encouraging it, and would harm consumers in Europe and the economy as a whole. More than 1 billion Apple devices have shipped using a Lightning connector in addition to an entire ecosystem of accessory and device manufacturers who use Lightning to serve our collective customers. Legislation would have a direct negative impact by disrupting the hundreds of millions of active devices and accessories used by our European customers and even more Apple customers worldwide, creating an unprecedented volume of electronic waste and greatly inconveniencing users. We do not believe there is a case for regulation given the industry is already moving to the use of USB Type-C through a connector or cable assembly. This includes Apple’s USB-C power adapter which is compatible with all iPhone and iPad devices. This approach is more affordable and convenient for consumers, enables charging for a wide range of portable electronic products, encourages people to re-use their charger and allows for innovation. Prior to 2009, the Commission considered mandating that all smartphones use only USB Micro-B connectors which would have restricted the advancement to Lightning and USB Type-C. Instead, the Commission established a voluntary, industry standards-based approach that saw the market shift from 30 chargers down to 3, soon to be two — Lightning and USB-C, showing this approach does work. We hope the Commission will continue to seek a solution that does not restrict the industry’s ability to innovate and bring exciting new technology to customers. And it’s worth noting there are already a couple of studies that conclude forcing a single connector standard could harm consumers more than it helps, and otherwise might not achieve the EC’s aims — though you should know one of those studies was commissioned by Apple, and the other by an association of tech companies that includes Apple. Among other arguments, they suggest that charger incompatibility isn’t generally a problem for EU households, more than half of which have standardized on one kind of cable anyhow; that households would prefer a new charger to come in the box instead of none; and that USB-C both costs more to produce and has a 20 percent higher carbon footprint, “due to the USB Type-C connector being larger and having a higher mass than the Lightning connector.” But the EC plans to publish its own dueling study in the upcoming weeks, which will presumably suggest differently. Correction, January 24th at 10:20 PM ET: This story originally appeared with the headline “No, the EU isn’t asking Apple to kill the Lightning cable.” That analysis was incorrect; this story has been rewritten to reflect the fact that EU regulation on common charging is still developing. It has also been updated with a recent statement from Apple made in response to the EU’s efforts. We apologize for the error.+++2
Microsoft puts the pressure on Slack with first TV ad for Microsoft Teams 43 A worldwide TV campaign starts during the NFL playoffs By Tom Warren@tomwarren  Jan 17, 2020, 3:01pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Microsoft is unveiling its first TV commercial for Microsoft Teams this weekend. A 30-second ad will air during Sunday’s NFL playoffs, and will also be shown in the UK, France, and Germany next month. Dubbed “The Power of Teams,” the ad opens with boring business meetings, flip charts, ancient speaker phones, and slidedecks printed on paper before quickly moving on to Teams. Microsoft has been aligning its Teams software as the hub for the future of its Office suite, and this ad plays into that. This TV commercial, which also includes Microsoft’s latest Surface hardware, is obviously designed to take on Slack in markets that may consider the rival group chat software over Microsoft’s alternative. Microsoft has successfully chased and overtaken its Slack competition during the past year, leading to Teams being used actively by 20 million people daily compared to Slack’s 12 million. THE MICROSOFT AND SLACK COMPETITION HAS BEEN HEATING UP RECENTLY The competition has been tense recently, with Microsoft claiming Slack doesn’t have the “breadth and depth that’s really required to reinvent what it looks like to work together.” Slack has claimed it’s not worried about the reach of Office 365, and it’s focused on how many of its users love its product and the amount of time they spend using the app. Slack even mocked Microsoft last year, accusing it of ripping off its ads. Despite the increased competition between both companies, there’s likely room for both Slack and Microsoft Teams in the market. A large number of small businesses rely on a combination of Zoom, Slack, Google, and Dropbox instead of an Office 365 subscription. Whereas Microsoft is comfortably winning the larger enterprise side of the chat app market, with 91 companies from the Fortune 100 already using Microsoft Teams.+++2
Disney is dropping ‘Fox,’ rebranding its acquired studio as 20th Century Studios 66 Fox Searchlight Pictures is now Searchlight Pictures By Chaim Gartenberg@cgartenberg  Jan 17, 2020, 12:26pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Illustration by Alex Castro / The Verge Disney’s landmark purchase of 20th Century Fox last year is complete, and now the company is looking to phase out the “Fox” branding in its new assets: the 20th Century Fox film studio is being rebranded to just “20th Century Studios,” and Fox Searchlight Pictures is now “Searchlight Pictures,” according to a report from Variety. The move away from the Fox brand isn’t entirely surprising, given that Fox Corporation — the remaining piece of the original Fox brand — still exists and runs things like Fox News, Fox Sports, and the Fox TV channel that weren’t sold to Disney. THE NEW NAMES WILL BEGIN ROLLING OUT SOON Removing the “Fox” from the studios and film divisions that Disney does own will presumably make things in the entertainment world a little clearer. (The fact that Fox News, in particular, is a politically contentious brand that doesn’t gel with Disney’s politically neutral, family-friendly ethos may have also contributed to the name change.) The new names will begin rolling out soon. According to Variety, Downhill — Searchlight’s next film — is already set to feature the updated logo alongside a “Searchlight Pictures Presents” label, while Call of the Wild (out on February 21st) will be the first to feature the new 20th Century Studios branding. All that’s changing is the naming, though: Variety’s report reassuringly notes that the iconic 20th Century Fox opening and fanfare will still remain on 20th Century Studios films, albeit in a modified version that won’t have the word “Fox” in it anymore. The company is still said to be deciding whether to change the names of the Fox TV production studios 20th Century Fox Television and Fox 21 Television Studios (which are less visible to consumers than the much more prominent film branding).+++2
Nvidia’s entry-level raytracing graphics card now costs $50 less 1 Plus, save on the Pixel 4 and The Office Complete Series By Cameron Faulkner@camfaulkner  Jan 17, 2020, 11:58am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Photo by Stefan Etienne / The Verge This story is part of a group of stories called Good Deals Only the best deals on Verge-approved gadgets get the Good Deals stamp of approval, so if you're looking for a deal on your next gadget or gift from major retailers like Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, Target, and more, this is the place to be. Vox Media has affiliate partnerships. These do not influence editorial content, though Vox Media may earn commissions for products purchased via affiliate links. For more information, see our ethics policy. If you’ve been waiting on a deal for Nvidia’s RTX 2060 desktop graphics card, the entry-level model in its lineup of raytracing-capable GPUs, an official price drop has been issued for the company’s Founders’ Edition model (via PC Gamer). It’s now $299 from Nvidia’s store, which is a $50 discount from the original price. Admittedly, that’s not a huge price cut, and it’s not even the only RTX 2060 at this price point. EVGA makes a model going for this price, too. But the appeal here is that it now costs, at most, a measly $25 or so more than the Nvidia GTX 1660 Ti graphics card. While those cards are fairly comparable (they usually come within 10-20 frames per second of the RTX 2060’s performance in a lot of YouTube comparisons, and are even built with the same efficient Turing architecture), the RTX 2060 holds the lead with more power, native raytracing in games that support it, and Nvidia’s Deep Learning Super-Sampling (DLSS) setting, which is also only in select titles. Photo by Vjeran Pavic / The Verg The Google Pixel 4 and Pixel 4 XL with 64GB of storage are each $100 off at B&H Photo, and include a $200 B&H Photo gift card with purchase. This brings the starting price down to $699 and $799, respectively. These are the unlocked versions of the phone, and they work on every major US carrier. We saw prices for these configurations start at $599 and $699 during Black Friday, but this is almost as good of a deal considering the massive gift card that’s included with purchase. the-office-nbc-netflix Now, for something completely different, The Office Complete Series costs $29.99 through iTunes. You still have plenty of time to watch it on Netflix, though it’s set to leave the service for NBC’s Peacock in 2021. Whether you want to preempt this shift, or just want to own it digitally, you can pick it up for a big discount today. The 38-disc DVD collection currently costs $50 at Best Buy, so paying less for the more space-conscious version (in HD, no less) is certainly a good deal to consider. If you’d prefer a platform-agnostic option, Vudu offers the complete series for $34.99. Photo by Amelia Holowaty Krales / The Verge Lastly, Apple’s 2018 iPad Pro is discounted yet again at Best Buy. Both sizes, the 11-inch and 12.9-inch tablets, are up to $200 off. Though, rather than telling you to jump on this deal, I’m advising you to instead hold off for a better one. Here’s why: you’ll only see $200 taken off the cost if you’re looking for upward to 512GB of storage. And even so, we’ve seen this deal hit countless times. For those looking to spend less on the base model with 64GB of storage, the 11-inch model starts at $674.99 (with the lowest-ever deal from November 2019 being $649.99) and the 12.9-inch tablet costs $874.99 (that price, stubbornly, has never gone below this mark). If you can wait, I’d suggest doing so until the 11-inch model with 64GB of storage goes down to $599.99, and the 12.9-inch entry model drops to $799.99. It’s only a matter of time until this happens, and given that these tablets are well into their second year on store shelves without a hardware revision to replace them, the drop in price is bound to happen sooner than later.+++2
Tesla cars are allegedly accelerating without warning, prompting government scrutiny 75 This isn’t the first time that Tesla has faced accusations of malfunctioning vehicles By Andrew J. Hawkins@andyjayhawk  Jan 17, 2020, 10:42am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Illustration by Alex Castro / The Verge The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration said Friday that it is weighing whether to launch an investigation into “sudden unexpected acceleration” of 500,000 Tesla vehicles, according to Reuters. The petition covers Tesla Model S (2012-2019 model year), Model X (2016-2019), and Model 3 (2018-2019) vehicles, Reuters says. It also cites 127 consumer complaints, 123 unique vehicles, 110 crashes, and 52 injuries. A spokesperson for Tesla did not immediately reply to a request for comment. “As is the agency’s standard practice in such matters, NHTSA will carefully review the petition and relevant data,” a spokesperson for the agency said in a statement. 127 CONSUMER COMPLAINTS, 123 UNIQUE VEHICLES, 110 CRASHES, AND 52 INJURIES Anyone can submit a petition requesting NHTSA to open an investigation into an alleged safety defect. After conducting a technical analysis, the agency’s Office of Defects Investigation informs the petitioner whether it will move forward with an investigation. This isn’t the first time that Tesla has faced accusations of malfunctioning vehicles. In November 2018, the electric automaker resolved a class action lawsuit from customers who claimed their Model S and X vehicles would suddenly accelerate without warning. Another lawsuit was filed last year by Mena Massoud, star of Disney’s live-action Aladdin, who claimed a faulty suspension caused the wheel of his Model 3 to come off a day after he bought it. And most recently, NHTSA opened an investigation into complaints about vehicle fires connected to the battery management systems in some Model S and X vehicles. Tesla has also come under fire over safety concerns involving its advanced driver assistance system, Autopilot. The National Transportation Safety Board announced plans yesterday to hold a public hearing in February to determine the probable cause of the fatal crash of a Tesla in Mountain View, California in 2017. There have been a number of reports of Tesla owners crashing their vehicles while using Autopilot, as well as a handful of people who have been killed while using Autopilot. Tesla has consistently said that drivers who use Autopilot are safer than those who don’t.+++2
Google reportedly working on Steam support for Chromebooks 28 Let’s find out if Chromebooks can run CS:GO By Jacob Kastrenakes@jake_k  Jan 17, 2020, 10:10am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Illustration by Alex Castro / The Verge Chrome OS may one day be able to play games from Steam. In an interview with Android Police, a Chrome OS product leader said that Google is working to allow Chromebooks to run Valve’s game platform, seemingly with help from Valve. No timeline was given on when support might arrive. It’s an intriguing but odd announcement. Google has been focused on expanding Chrome OS’s capabilities over the last few years by allowing it to run native apps from Android, so that it’s not entirely reliant on the web. Adding Steam would push that even further, opening up Chromebooks to the hundreds of games that offer support for Linux, which Chrome OS is based on. HOW MANY GAMES CAN CHROMEBOOKS ACTUALLY RUN? But Chromebooks are by and large low-power devices, designed to run a web browser and not much more. It’s hard to imagine that games would run well on the vast majority of Chromebooks currently out there, although Steam does offer a wide selection of smaller indie titles that are less graphically demanding. Still, Steam support will likely be useful only to the highest-end devices right now. Kan Liu, the Chrome OS product director who spoke with Android Police, said that more powerful Chromebooks are coming, particularly those that will feature AMD processors. Even if its usefulness is limited, it still translates to more things you can do on Chrome OS, and that’s by no means a bad thing. As Android Police points out, casual titles and older games could run just fine on some machines. (Steam also supports streaming games from other computers. It’s possible that’s a focus here, too, though the conversation seemed to be around native gameplay.) At the same time, it’s a little surprising to see Google prioritizing native gaming on Chrome OS — its cloud-focused operating system — when Google is also building out Stadia, a game streaming service that doesn’t require powerful local hardware. Stadia still comes with a great number of limitations, though (a small game library among them), so the two offerings don’t necessary address the exact same needs.+++2
TikTok’s favorite chemistry teacher wants you to be careful with hydrogen peroxide Chemteacherphil is giving followers a second chance at science By Nicole Wetsman  Jan 17, 2020, 10:00am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Illustration by Alex Castro / The Verge High school chemistry teacher Phil Cook (@chemteacherphil) didn’t know anything about TikTok until one Friday in August, when a student in his class suggested that he make one of the day’s in-class demonstration: an experiment he calls the “gummy bear” sacrifice, where adding sugar (a gummy bear) to a test tube of potassium chlorate creates a contained explosion. “I said, here’s my phone, make the video and we can take a look at it,” Cook says. He posted the video to TikTok and left school for the weekend. “I came back Monday, and the kids were like, ‘Did you see how many views you got?’ I hadn’t even looked at it,” Cook says. In just two days, the video had around 30,000 views. After seeing the response, Cook decided to keep making videos of chemistry demonstrations. Now, he has over 900,000 followers on TikTok. Rather than just show followers weird reactions taking place, he describes the science behind them — or asks viewers to guess what they think the science is. He’s done everything from oxidize iron to pull out the individual chemicals in a glow stick. “I see a lot of questions from people who are naturally curious,” he says. “I try to show them things that spark their curiosity.” The following questions and answers have been lightly edited for clarity. Tell me more about your first video — what were you trying to do with that experiment? I teach an introductory chemistry course. I teach kids to make observations about matter and change, and being able to differentiate between physical and chemical change is the focus of the first lab activity. I ask them to cite evidence they see that supports that a chemical or physical change has occurred. The gummy bear sacrifice is a pretty popular demonstration, and there’s a lot of evidence the kids can grab onto. It’s pretty over the top, and emphasizes the concepts in the lab they’d just done. How do you pick what experiments to put on TikTok? There’s a common thread in where I am in the course and the demonstrations I do videos of. Sometimes I expand beyond that. Some things are just things I’m interested in, where I can throw a demo together and see what the chemical reaction is. What’s behind the popularity of some of your videos? I did one with a polymer sodium alginate, which is a polymer from seaweed. It’s used in molecular gastronomy. You can eat it. That video, when I walked through the process, inspired a lot of nostalgia. Videos that have some sort of nostalgia — whether I mean to do it or not — that have references the kids pull out, are popular. With that particular video, everyone commented about Yu-Gi-Oh! I have no idea about Yu-Gi-Oh!, I guess it’s some card combination that results in something called polymerization. Why is the “elephant toothpaste” reaction so popular on TikTok and other social media platforms? It’s appealing because it’s accessible. Most anyone who is of a reasonable age can go and buy hydrogen peroxide. The catalyst [usually yeast] is relatively easy to acquire. I don’t think people really recognize how dangerous it is, especially when you’re using the concentrations of hydrogen peroxide that give the experiment a really rapid generation of oxygen gas. You need at least 30 percent hydrogen peroxide, which can be a huge hazard. If you look on YouTube you can see gallons of hydrogen peroxide dumped into a catalyst in a barrel — there’s a reason they’re wearing hazmat suits. Even then, it’s not necessarily safe. I would never do a demo on that order [of magnitude]. What are your goals for your chemistry videos? Only reason I do them is because people seem to be interested in them. The comments I appreciate the most are the ones where people of whatever age say, “I wish my chemistry teacher would have done that, my experience was different, thanks for giving me a second shot at chemistry.” Those are why I do this.+++2
Google parent Alphabet is now a $1 trillion company The search giant (GOOG) is the fourth to hit a $1 trillion market cap By Kim Lyons  Jan 16, 2020, 5:30pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options In this photo illustration a Google logo seen displayed on a... Photo Illustration by Omar Marques/SOPA Images/LightRocket via Getty Images Google’s parent company Alphabet ($GOOG) is now the fourth US company to hit a market cap of $1 trillion. It hit the number just before markets closed on Thursday, ending the day’s trading at $1,451.70 per share, up 0.87 percent. Google CEO Sundar Pichai took over as CEO of Alphabet in December, after Google co-founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin relinquished control of Alphabet. It’s been a bumpy couple of years at the company that included allegations of sexual misconduct by executives and a 20,000-person Google Walkout employee protest. Alphabet is slated to report fourth-quarter earnings on February 3rd, and Wall Street analysts are expecting it to report revenue of $46.9 billion, a year-over-year uptick of almost 20 percent. SAUDI ARAMCO WAS THE FIRST $2 TRILLION COMPANY Apple was the first US company to hit a $1 trillion cap in 2018, followed later that year by Amazon (which has since dropped below that figure), and Microsoft hit the $1 trillion mark in April 2019. The first company ever to hit a $1 trillion market cap (briefly) was PetroChina in 2007. And late last year, Saudi Aramco became the first $2 trillion company shortly after its debut on the Riyadh stock exchange in December. Of course, a trillion-dollar valuation doesn’t tell the complete story of the overall economic health of a company, and isn’t used in any meaningful way by investors; it’s mostly a cool-looking vanity metric. The trillion-dollar companies were still among the most-profitable companies in the world last year according to Fortune, however, with Saudi Aramco at the top of the list, Apple second, and Alphabet 7th. The next company expected to hit the $1 trillion market cap is Facebook, which, as of the closing bell Thursday, was at about $620 billion.+++2
Apple TV Plus’ The Banker will hit theaters in March after being delayed following controversy A theatrical release on March 6th, followed by a streaming debut on March 20th By Chaim Gartenberg@cgartenberg  Jan 16, 2020, 4:38pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Image: Apple The Banker — the first film from Apple TV Plus planned to make a major theatrical release — will be hitting theaters on March 6th, after an initial delay while Apple investigated sexual misconduct allegations surrounding Bernard Garrett Jr., the movie’s producer. Garrett is also the real-life son of The Banker protagonist Bernard Garrett Sr. (played by Anthony Mackie), via Variety. In a statement, an Apple spokesperson commented to Variety that “We created Apple TV Plus as a home for stories that matter and believe ‘The Banker,’ inspired by the brave actions of Bernard Garrett Sr. and Joe Morris, two African American businessmen who brought about positive social change, is one of those stories.” THE DELAY MEANS ‘THE BANKER’ WILL MISS A SHOT AT THE OSCARS “We wanted to take the time to understand the situation at hand — and after reviewing the information available to us, including documentation of the filmmakers’ research, we’ve decided to make this important and enlightening film available to viewers.” The Banker was originally intended to premiere at AFI Fest in 2019, and was meant to serve as one of Apple’s first forays into making high-quality, Oscar-contending films. The delay from that initial release means that the film will have missed the 2019 awards season entirely, though. Following the theatrical release on March 6th, Apple will also be releasing The Banker for Apple TV Plus subscribers on March 20th.+++2
Jimmy Fallon and Seth Meyers’ late-night shows will stream early exclusively on Peacock Late night now begins at 8PM ET By Julia Alexander  Jan 16, 2020, 4:26pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon - Season 7 Photo by: Andrew Lipovsky/NBC/NBCU Photo Bank via Getty Images Late-night TV is going to start a little earlier thanks to NBCUniversal’s new streaming service, Peacock. Both The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon and Late Night with Seth Meyers will air on Peacock hours before the shows air on regular network television, marking the first time a streaming service preempts its own linear broadcasts. “Starting in July on Peacock Premium, NBC’s late night talk shows will be streaming on Peacock beginning at 8 p.m. ET with The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon, followed by Late Night with Seth Meyers at 9 p.m. ET,” a press release reads. The move seems like an attempt from NBCUniversal to reclaim some of the viewers they’ve lost to YouTube. YouTube is important to late night, but NBCUniversal can use an earlier time to try — key word being try — and bring some of those eyeballs back to their own platform. This is especially true considering just how important advertising is to NBCUniversal and Comcast’s revenue plan for Peacock. The big question remains how affiliate networks that air late night shows in their currently spots feel about the move. The option to stream early will only be available to Peacock Premium subscribers. Comcast and NBCUniversal announced today that Peacock will be available in three tiers: a free option (Peacock Free) that comes with limited programming; an ad-supported complete version that is free to existing Comcast customers and $5 a month for everyone else; and a $10-a-month ad-free subscription option that is open to anyone. Both of those paid tiers are considered “Peacock Premium,” and will include live sports and early access to late-night shows. Peacock Premium will also include non-televised Premier League soccer games beginning in August. Comcast and Cox cable subscribers will get free access to Peacock Premium with ads, or they can pay just $5 per month for an ad-free version. Comcast’s Xfinity X1 and Flex customers will get early access to Peacock Premium on April 15th. The streaming service will launch nationally on July 15th.+++2
Twitter allowed ad targeting based on ‘neo-Nazi’ keyword The BBC says other prohibited keywords slipped past Twitter’s filters as well By Kim Lyons  Jan 16, 2020, 3:55pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Illustration by Alex Castro / The Verge In the latest “keyword targeting gone awry” experiment, the BBC was able to use terms like “neo-Nazi” and “white supremacist” in a Twitter ad campaign, despite the social media platform’s policy that advertisers “may not select keywords that target sensitive categories.” According to Twitter’s policies, those sensitive categories include genetic or biometric data, health, commission of a crime, sex life, religious affiliation or beliefs, and racial or ethnic origin, among others. The BBC ran an ad and says it was able to target users who were interested in the words “white supremacist,” “transphobic,” and “anti-gay,” among others. It wasn’t clear whether the news organization was reaching users who were interested in those terms (such as for research) or people who identified as such, only noting that “Twitter allows ads to be directed at users who have posted about or searched for specific topics.” The ad, which cost £3.84 (about $5) was only live for a couple of hours, the BBC reports, during which time 37 people saw it and two people clicked on it. A second version of the ad was targeted at users aged 13 to 24 using “anorexia,” “anorexic,” “bulimia,” and “bulimic” as keywords. It was seen by 255 users with 14 clicks before the BBC took it down. But according to Twitter’s tool, it had the potential to reach 20,000 people. In an emailed statement to The Verge, Twitter seems to suggest the words tested by the BBC may not have been on its sensitive words list: Twitter has specific policies related to keyword targeting, which exist to protect the public conversation. Preventative measures include banning certain sensitive or discriminatory terms, which we update on a continuous basis. In this instance, some of these terms were permitted for targeting purposes. This was an error. We’re very sorry this happened and as soon as we were made aware of the issue, we rectified it. The company says it continues to enforce its ad policies, “including restricting the promotion of content in a wide range of areas, including inappropriate content targeting minors.” Ad-targeting on social media platforms has come under increased scrutiny, raising questions about the potential for discrimination. ProPublica found that it was possible to run ads on Facebook that essentially discriminated against groups protected by federal law. In 2018, The Guardian found Facebook ads could be used to target users based on sensitive topics, which is in violation of since-implemented privacy laws in Europe.+++2
The Vive Pro just got $200 cheaper ahead of Half-Life: Alyx 15 It’s now $1,199 for a full kit or $599 for just the headset By Adi Robertson@thedextriarchy  Jan 16, 2020, 2:23pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options HTC has cut the price of its high-end Vive Pro virtual reality headset by $200, making one of the most expensive big-name headsets a little more affordable. The price cut applies to three different packages. The Vive Pro headset alone — without the tracking base stations and controllers — has dropped from $799 to $599. The Vive Pro Starter Kit, which includes two SteamVR 1.0 base stations and two Vive controllers, dropped from $1,099 to $899. And the Vive Pro Full Kit, which offers the same deal with newer 2.0 base stations, now costs $1,199. The Vive Pro is HTC’s high-end professional-oriented VR headset. It’s a variation on the now-discontinued first-generation Vive, featuring an upgraded resolution of 1440 x 1600 per eye as well as precision tracking with two (or more) laser base stations. HTC also sells the mediocre $699 Vive Cosmos, which is meant for gaming and other home use. The Cosmos uses more convenient head-mounted cameras instead of base stations, and it features motion controllers that are closer to Oculus’ gaming-oriented design than the austere Vive remotes. But the Vive Pro’s most direct competition is Valve’s high-end $999 Index. The Index also features a 1440 x 1600 resolution per eye, and it uses SteamVR base stations for tracking. Both headsets (as well as the Cosmos) plug into a gaming PC. Until now, the Vive Pro cost significantly more than the Index. Now, HTC’s starter kit is slightly cheaper — if you’re willing to make the sacrifice of using older base stations, which are lacking a few performance upgrades and features for power users with big play spaces. Perhaps more importantly, though, the Index is currently out of stock as Valve prepares to release its highly anticipated Half-Life: Alyx in March. The Vive Pro is one of your only options if you like base station tracking instead of inside-out cameras. It’s got a higher resolution than the wired Oculus Rift S, and this price drop makes it a more viable purchase for home users. You’ll have to weigh whether it’s worth the significant hassle of setting up those base stations, though — especially since you still won’t be getting the special interactions that Valve has promised for its unique Index controllers.+++2
Nancy Pelosi calls Facebook an accomplice for ‘misleading the American people’ 56 Pelosi offers rare rebuke of Facebook By Makena Kelly@kellymakena  Jan 16, 2020, 1:45pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Speaker Nancy Pelosi Holds Weekly Press Conference Photo by Mark Wilson/Getty Images House Speaker Nancy Pelosi ripped into Facebook on Thursday during her weekly press briefing and accused the social media company of “schmoozing” the Trump administration out of tougher regulation. “They have been very irresponsible,” Pelosi said about the social media giant. “I think their behavior is shameful.” She continued: “Facebook’s business model is strictly to make money. They don’t care about the impact on children. They don’t care about the impact on truth. They don’t care about where this is all coming from, and they have said that even if they know it is not true, they will print it.” Facebook did not immediately respond to a request for comment. CBS News  @CBSNews Pelosi criticizes Facebook, which has an office in her district: "All they want are their tax cuts and no antitrust action against them and they schmooze this administration in that regard...They intend to be accomplices for misleading the American people" https://www.cbsnews.com/news/watch-live-speaker-nancy-pelosi-holds-weekly-press-conference-watch-live-stream-today-2020-01-16/ … Embedded video 635 8:27 AM - Jan 16, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 426 people are talking about this Pelosi’s remarks came as a response to a question on whether Facebook and its CEO Mark Zuckerberg have too much power. Pelosi hails from the capital of Silicon Valley — San Francisco — but her district doesn’t include Facebook’s headquarters. Over the past year, House lawmakers, led by Rep. David Cicilline (D-RI), have investigated the Silicon Valley social media company and others like Google and Amazon for potential abuses of market power and for violations of antitrust law. This heightened criticism hasn’t come without its regulatory threats. Once the House Judiciary Committee finishes its investigation into the tech sector, it could introduce legislation aimed at regulating companies like Facebook and Google. The Trump administration has also threatened to regulate platforms like Facebook for allegedly censoring conservatives. But after closed-door meetings with Zuckerberg, Republicans have mostly stopped accusing the platform of censorship. “My thought about them is that all they want is their tax cuts and no antitrust action against them,” Pelosi said. “And they schmooze this administration in that regard because so far that is what they’ve received.” HERE ARE PELOSI’S REMARKS IN FULL: I think that they have been very abusive of the great opportunity that technology has given them. My thought about them is that all they want is their tax cuts and no antitrust action against them, and they schmooze this administration in that regard because so far that is what they’ve received. What they have said, very clearly, very blatantly, is that they intend to be accomplices for misleading the American people with money from god knows where. They didn’t even check on the money from Russia in the last election. They never even thought they should. They have been very irresponsible. Again, as you say these are people that we’ve known and worked with over time. Actually, Facebook is down the peninsula but they do have an office in my district and I think their behavior is shameful.+++2
Google Stadia promises more than 120 games in 2020, including 10 exclusives 58 But there’s still a lot missing from the service By Jay Peters  Jan 16, 2020, 1:10pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Photo by Amelia Holowaty Krales / The Verge Google said today that it’s on track to bring more than 120 games to its cloud gaming service Stadia in 2020 and is planning to offer more than 10 Stadia-exclusive games for the first half of the year. That would be a pretty massive jump from the 26 games and one exclusive that are currently available, and all in a little more than a year after the service’s launch, if those projections hold true. Previously, Google had only explicitly confirmed four games for 2020, so this news was much needed to let early adopters know there are a lot more games on the way. Google also announced other updates rolling out to Stadia over the next three months, including 4K gaming on the web, support for more Android phones (it’s currently only available on Google’s Pixels), wireless gameplay on the web through the Stadia controller (you currently have to plug in a cable), and “further [Google] Assistant functionality” when playing Stadia through a browser. We’re asking Google for more details — and we’re particularly curious whether any of the new exclusive games are the kind that are only possible with the power of the cloud. The company said in October that it’s building out a few first-party studios to eventually make that a reality. RELATED Google Stadia review: the best of cloud gaming is still just a beta You probably shouldn’t get too excited about 4K on the web because we’ve already seen that 4K on Stadia doesn’t necessarily mean 4K. The stream is 4K, but some games like Destiny 2 are actually running at a much lower 1080p. And to even get that 4K stream, you have to pay a monthly fee for Stadia Pro, as opposed to the free tier that Google has promised to launch where you’ll only have to pay for games. Still, Google’s “4K” tier is definitely higher quality than Google’s “1080p” tier, and should make games like Destiny 2 look less fuzzy on the web. Also, while it’s nice that you’ll soon be able to use a Stadia controller wirelessly when you’re playing over the web, there’s still no word on when you’ll be able to use that controller wirelessly with your phone. Perhaps that’s further away. Third-party controllers like Sony’s DualShock 4 and the Bluetooth-enabled versions of Microsoft’s Xbox One gamepad already work wirelessly, though. When can I play Stadia like this, but without the cord? Photo by Amelia Holowaty Krales / The Verge There’s still a lot that’s missing from Stadia that was promised, even after these announcements. Google didn’t mention that upcoming Stadia free tier in today’s blog post at all, which we last heard was supposed to open up sometime in 2020. And today’s blog also doesn’t say anything about iOS support, so it’s probably safe to say these cloud games aren’t coming to your iPhone or iPad anytime over the next three months.+++2
Cyberpunk 2077 is being delayed to September 17th 47 The game was set to launch on April 16th By Adi Robertson@thedextriarchy  Jan 16, 2020, 12:55pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Cyberpunk 2077 CD Projekt Red CD Projekt Red’s role-playing game Cyberpunk 2077 is being delayed from April 16th to September 17th. “We are currently at a stage where the game is complete and playable, but there’s still work to be done,” the studio tweeted in an announcement explaining the move. “Night City is massive — full of stories, content, and places to visit, but due to the sheer scale and complexity of it all, we need more time to finish playtesting, fixing, and polishing. We want Cyberpunk 2077 to be our crowning achievement for this generation, and postponing launch will give us the precious months we need to make the game perfect.” Cyberpunk 2077 has been in the works since at least 2013, but CD Projekt Red has only started really showing off extended gameplay in the past year. The game is supposed to be packed with sci-fi combat mechanics, body mods, vehicles, narrative choices, and romance options, so it’s not a stretch to imagine those things taking some more time to get right. A multiplayer component for Cyberpunk 2077 was also originally supposed to launch after the game’s April debut, among other free add-ons. In an investor call after the announcement, CD Projekt Red said the multiplayer option probably won’t launch until after 2021. The studio has promised more updates about the game in general as we get closer to September.+++2
The Magicians made death matter again, but now it’s got to live with that The beloved Syfy series rebuilds after a risky finale By Joshua Rivera  Jan 16, 2020, 11:37am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Image: Syfy The Magicians is in a very peculiar place. In its fifth season, the Syfy show is pretty much out of material to adapt from the novels. This is something season 4 spent most of its time preparing for, with a big bad — a monster that possessed Eliot (Hale Appleman), perhaps the most charming member of the cast — that was an invention of the series. But it’s also now a show in mourning, and it’s going to take a while to get that out of its system. Below are spoilers for the fourth season finale but not for the new season. The last season of The Magicians was a bit of a mess overall, but it concluded with an absolute stunner: the death of starring character Quentin Coldwater (Jason Ralph). For a show that plays as fast and loose with mortality as The Magicians, Quentin’s death felt significant and weighty, like it really meant it this time. (And, according to the show’s producers, it does.) To drive this home, season 5 spends a significant amount of time grieving Quentin. In the first three episodes sent to critics in advance, the show’s cast is dealing with the ramifications of his death and its immediate fallout, a world where there is too much magic. Alice (Olivia Dudley) has sunk into a deep depression and does something drastic to cope. Eliot and Margo (Summer Bishil) return to the land of Fillory to discover that, somehow, they have warped 300 years into a future where their friends Josh (Trevor Einhorn) and Fen (Brittany Curran) have been deposed and killed by a “dark king” who now rules the magical land. Penny (Arjun Gupta) finds himself with a job offer; the surplus of magic has led to several more people with his rare talent of teleporting across worlds, and Dean Fogg (Rick Worthy) of Brakebills University needs someone to train them. Image: Syfy The show is taking its time right now, but I’m not terribly inclined to give it trouble for that. Even if its new season is a bit slower than I would like at the moment, it’s still the rare adaptation that’s better than its source material. The reason for this is simple: The Magicians never really bothered with straight adaptation. The books were often just suggestions, with scenes pulled out of context and repurposed and ideas remixed until they became something weirder and new. But the series did all of this while remaining true to the spirit of the novels. The Magicians trilogy of books was, among other things, about a white male protagonist who believed he was the center of the story and painfully learning that he was not. The Magicians show is furthering this goal, painting the world around him in vibrant, gleefully vulgar shades, allowing each of its characters to have their day in the sun. EVERY CHARACTER NEEDS THERAPY This is perhaps why I will watch The Magicians until the sun goes out: it is better than any show, outside of the Real Housewives canon, at building out spectacularly messy characters with enough chaotic energy to blot out the sun and still have the audience care about them. Watching a season of The Magicians is like watching a series of barely controlled yet wholly sympathetic nuclear meltdowns that might end the world but are also incredibly moving. Every character needs therapy, and the ones that are in it should probably go more. I love them all deeply. Despite its dour start, The Magicians is a joy to watch moment to moment, and the canvas feels wide open in a way it hasn’t since the show’s stellar third season. It might take a little while to kick into gear, but The Magicians has always been a show that knows how to make a wait worthwhile. That’s how magic works, right? Lots of painstaking and careful preparation, all for a beautiful disaster we never see coming.+++2
Bose is closing all of its retail stores in North America, Europe, Japan, and Australia 49 The move will result in hundreds of employees being laid off By Chris Welch@chriswelch  Jan 15, 2020, 4:34pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Bose Store at Woodbury Commons Premium Outlets Mall Photo by Gary Hershorn/Corbis via Getty Images Bose plans to close its entire retail store footprint in North America, Europe, Japan, and Australia. The company announced the decision earlier today and pointed to the fact that its headphones, speakers, and other products “are increasingly purchased through e-commerce” as the reasoning. Hundreds of employees will be laid off as a result. Bose opened its first physical retail store in 1993 and currently has locations in many shopping centers and the remaining malls scattered across the US. The stores are used to showcase the company’s product lineup, which has grown beyond Bose’s signature noise-canceling headphones in recent years to include smart speakers and sunglasses that double as earbuds. There are often similar demo areas at retailers like Best Buy, though Bose has plenty of competition to worry about in that environment. The Framingham, Massachusetts-based company is privately held and is not revealing exactly how many workers are being impacted by its decision to pull out of physical retail. Got a tip for us? Use SecureDrop or Signal to securely send messages and files to The Verge without revealing your identity. “Originally, our retail stores gave people a way to experience, test, and talk to us about multi-component, CD and DVD-based home entertainment systems,” said Colette Burke, Bose’s vice president of global sales. “At the time, it was a radical idea, but we focused on what our customers needed, and where they needed it — and we’re doing the same thing now.” Bose is shuttering its retail presence in North America, Europe, Japan, and Australia “over the next few months.” That adds up to a total of 119 stores, according to a spokesperson. “In other parts of the world, Bose stores will remain open, including approximately 130 stores located in Greater China and the United Arab Emirates; and additional stores in India, Southeast Asia, and South Korea,” the company told The Verge by email. Bose says it’s offering outplacement assistance and severance to employees that are being laid off. The company’s full statement is below: Given the dramatic shift to online shopping in specific markets, Bose plans to close its remaining 119 retail stores across North America, Europe, Japan and Australia over the next several months. In other parts of the world, Bose stores will remain open, including approximately 130 stores located in Greater China and the United Arab Emirates; and additional stores in India, Southeast Asia, and South Korea. In 1993, Bose opened its first store in the United States to provide personal, private demonstrations for Wave music systems and Lifestyle home theater systems. As smartphones changed the industry, the company’s focus turned to mobile, Bluetooth, and Wi-Fi solutions. Today, Bose noise-cancelling headphones, truly wireless sport earbuds, portable speakers, and smart speakers are increasingly purchased through e-commerce, including Bose.com; and Bose is a larger multi-national company, with a localized mix of channels tailored for a country or region. “Originally, our retail stores gave people a way to experience, test, and talk to us about multi-component, CD and DVD-based home entertainment systems,” said Colette Burke, vice president of Global Sales, Bose Corporation. “At the time, it was a radical idea, but we focused on what our customers needed, and where they needed it – and we’re doing the same thing now. It’s still difficult, because the decision impacts some of our amazing store teams who make us proud every day. They take care of every person who walks through our doors – whether that’s helping with a problem, giving expert advice, or just letting someone take a break and listen to great music. Over the years, they’ve set the standard for customer service. And everyone at Bose is grateful.” Bose will be offering outplacement assistance and severance to affected employees. Additional details, including the number of employees affected, will remain private. Bose products are carried at Amazon, Best Buy, Target, Apple stores, other third-party retailers, and on the company’s own website.+++2
Apple’s latest AI acquisition leaves some Wyze cameras without people detection 10 This was a major selling point of Wyze’s affordable cameras By Cameron Faulkner@camfaulkner  Jan 15, 2020, 4:09pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Image: Wyze Earlier today, Apple confirmed it purchased Seattle-based AI company Xnor.ai (via MacRumors). Acquisitions at Apple’s scale happen frequently, though rarely do they impact everyday people on the day of their announcement. This one is different. Cameras from fellow Seattle-based company Wyze, including the Wyze Cam V2 and Wyze Cam Pan, have utilized Xnor.ai’s on-device people detection since last summer. But now that Apple owns the company, it’s no longer available. Some people on Wyze’s forum are noting that the beta firmware removing the people detection has already started to roll out. THERE’S NO RELEASE DATE ON WYZE’S OWN PERSON DETECTION Oddly enough, word of this lapse in service isn’t anything new. Wyze issued a statement in November 2019 saying that Xnor.ai had terminated their contract (though its reason for doing so wasn’t as clear then as it is today), and that a firmware update slated for mid-January 2020 would remove the feature from those cameras. There’s a bright side to this loss, though, even if Apple snapping up Xnor.ai makes Wyze’s affordable cameras less appealing in the interim. Wyze says that it’s working on its own in-house version of people detection for launch at some point this year. And whether it operates on-device via “edge AI” computing like Xnor.ai’s does, or by authenticating through the cloud, it will be free for users when it launches. That’s good and all, but the year just started, and it’s a little worrying Wyze hasn’t followed up with a specific time frame for its replacement of the feature. Two days ago, Wyze’s social media community manager stated that the company was “making great progress” on its forums, but they didn’t offer up when it would be available. As for what Apple plans to do with Xnor.ai is anyone’s guess. Ahead of its partnership with Wyze, the AI startup had developed a small, wireless AI camera that ran exclusively on solar power. Regardless of whether Apple is more interested in its edge computing algorithm, as was seen working on Wyze cameras for a short time, or its clever hardware ideas around AI-powered cameras, it’s getting all of it with the purchase.+++2
Facebook’s problems moderating deepfakes will only get worse in 2020 13 New tools will make deepfakes more accessible and less obviously harmful By James Vincent  Jan 15, 2020, 12:36pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options A comparison of an original and deepfake video of Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg Elyse Samuels/The Washington Post via Getty Images Last summer, a video of Mark Zuckerberg circulated on Instagram in which the Facebook CEO appeared to claim he had “total control of billions of people’s stolen data, all their secrets, their lives, their futures.” It turned out to be an art project rather than a deliberate attempt at misinformation, but Facebook allowed it to stay on the platform. According to the company, it didn’t violate any of its policies. For some, this showed how big tech companies aren’t prepared to deal with the onslaught of AI-generated fake media known as deepfakes. But it isn’t necessarily Facebook’s fault. Deepfakes are incredibly hard to moderate, not because they’re difficult to spot (though they can be), but because the category is so broad that any attempt to “clamp down” on AI-edited photos and videos would end up affecting a whole swath of harmless content. Banning deepfakes altogether would mean removing popular jokes like gender-swapped Snapchat selfies and artificially aged faces. Banning politically misleading deepfakes just leads back to the same political moderation problems tech companies have faced for years. And given there’s no simple algorithm that can automatically spot AI-edited content, whatever ban they do enact would mean creating even more work for beleaguered human moderators. For companies like Facebook, there’s just no easy option. “IT APPLIES TO SUCH A HUGE CATEGORY OF THING THAT IT’S UNCLEAR IF IT MEANS ANYTHING AT ALL” “If you take ‘deepfake’ to mean any video or image that’s edited by machine learning then it applies to such a huge category of thing that it’s unclear if it means anything at all,” Tim Hwang, former director of the Harvard-MIT Ethics and Governance of AI Initiative, tells The Verge. “If I had my druthers, which I’m not sure if I do, I would say that the way we should think about deepfakes is as a matter of intent. What are you trying to accomplish at the sort of media that you’re creating?” Notably, this seems to be the direction that big platforms are actually taking. Facebook and Reddit both announced moderation policies that covered deepfakes last week, and rather than trying to stamp out the format altogether, they took a narrower focus. Facebook said it will remove “manipulated misleading media” which has been “edited or synthesized” using AI or machine learning “in ways that aren’t apparent to an average person and would likely mislead someone into thinking that a subject of the video said words that they did not actually say.” But the company noted that this does not cover “parody or satire” or misleading edits made using traditional means, like last year’s viral video of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi supposedly slurring her words. New apps like Doublicat (pictured) will make deepfakes easier and more fun. Credit: Doublicat Reddit, meanwhile, didn’t mention AI at all, but instead said it will remove media that “impersonates individuals or entities in a misleading or deceptive manner.” It’s also created an exemption for “satire and parody,” and added that it will “always take into account the context of any particular content” — a broad caveat that gives its mods a lot of leeway. As many have pointed out, these policies are full of loopholes. Writing at OneZero, Will Oremus notes that Facebook’s only covers edited media which includes speech, for example. This means that “a deepfake video that makes it look like a politician burned the American flag, participated in a white nationalist rally, or shook hands with a terrorist” would not be prohibited — something Facebook confirmed to Oremus. These are glaring omissions, but they highlight the difficulty separating deepfakes from the underlying problems of platform moderation. Although many reports in recent years have treated “deepfake” as synonymous with “political misinformation,” the actual definition is far more broad. And the problem will only get worse in 2020. APPS WILL MAKE DEEPFAKE GENERATION EASIER, AND MUCH MORE FUN While earlier versions of deepfake software took some patience and technical skill to use, the next generation will make creating deepfakes as easy as posting. Apps that use AI to edit video (the standard definition of a deepfake) will become commonplace, and as they spread — used for in-jokes, brand tweets, bullying, harassment, and everything in between — the idea of the deepfake as a unique threat to truth online will fade away. Just this week, an app named Doublicat launched on iOS and Android that uses machine learning to paste users’ faces onto popular reaction GIFs. Right now it only works with preselected GIFs, but the company’s CEO told The Verge it’ll allow users to insert faces into any content they like in future, powered by a type of machine learning method known as a GAN. Does all this make Doublicat a deepfake app? Yep. And will it undermine democracy? Probably not. Just look at the quality of its output, as demonstrated by the GIF below, which shows my face pasted onto Chris Pratt’s in Parks and Recreation. Technologically, it’s impressive. The app made the GIF in a few seconds from just a single photo. But it’s never going to be mistaken for the real thing. Meanwhile, the creator of TikTok, ByteDance, has been experimenting with deepfake features (though it says they won’t be incorporated into its wildly popular app) and Snapchat recently introduced its own face-swapping tools. The author as Chris Pratt. Hwang argues that the dilution of the term deepfakes could actually have benefits in the long run. “I think the great irony of people saying that all of these consumer features are also deepfakes, is that it in some ways commoditizes what deepfake means,” says Hwang. If deepfakes become commonplace and unremarkable, then people will “get comfortable with the notion of what this technology can do,” he says. Then, hopefully, we can understand it better and focus on the underlying problems of misinformation and political propaganda. It’s possible to argue that the problem of moderating deepfakes on social media has been mostly a distraction from the start. AI-edited political propaganda has failed to materialize in a meaningful way, and studies show that the vast majority of deepfakes are nonconsensual porn (making up 96 percent of online deepfake videos). Social media platforms have happily engaged in the debate over deepfake moderation, but as Facebook and Reddit’s recent announcements show, these efforts are mostly a sideshow. The core issues have not changed: who gets to lie on the internet, and who decides if they’re lying? Once deepfakes cease to be believable as an existential threat to truth, we’ll be left with the same, unchanging questions, more pressing than ever before.+++2
For the first time, Microsoft’s new Surface Pro X is $100 off 14 It’s not a huge price cut, but it’s the biggest drop yet By Cameron Faulkner@camfaulkner  Jan 15, 2020, 11:16am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Photo by Vjeran Pavic / The Verg This story is part of a group of stories called Good Deals Only the best deals on Verge-approved gadgets get the Good Deals stamp of approval, so if you're looking for a deal on your next gadget or gift from major retailers like Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, Target, and more, this is the place to be. Vox Media has affiliate partnerships. These do not influence editorial content, though Vox Media may earn commissions for products purchased via affiliate links. For more information, see our ethics policy. Today is the first time we’re seeing a price drop on the new Surface Pro X tablet, Microsoft’s reimagining of the stayed Surface Pro design that features a custom Qualcomm processor and supports 4G LTE out of the box. At Best Buy, you can get the base model (featuring 8GB of RAM and 128GB of SSD storage) for $899.99, which is $100 off of its usual price. In order to get this deal, you’ll need to be a My Best Buy member, though it’s free to sign up. Once you’re signed in with your account, click the “Apply Offer” box below the price shown on the Surface Pro X’s product page. Keep in mind that this purchase doesn’t include a Type Cover. If you want one of those, Amazon currently offers them for $109.99 (for fast shipping, select Amazon.com as the seller beneath where you can add it to your cart), which is far cheaper than the Microsoft Store’s rate at $139.99. Photo by Vjeran Pavic / The Verge In our review, Dieter Bohn ran into several app compatibility issues with the ARM processor at launch, and overall, its performance didn’t quite match the price tag. However, considering this slight price drop, and with Microsoft’s new Edge Chromium browser for ARM showing promising boosts to battery life, now might be the right time to check it out. Photo by Vjeran Pavic / The Verg If you’re ready for an upgrade for your Verizon plan or are thinking of opening a new line with a phone that takes great pictures, Best Buy is offering a stellar deal on the Google Pixel 4 with 64GB of storage. It has effectively knocked the final price in half, down to $400 (usually $799). To take advantage of this offer, you’ll need to elect to pay $16.67 per month for 24 months with Verizon. (That’s in addition to the cost of your data plan.) Of course, paying $400 for the phone with no strings attached would be preferable, but still, this is half of what this phone usually costs per month. And those savings result in a much cheaper phone once your two-year payment period is up. As part of B&H Photo’s deal of the day (via Slickdeals), you can get LG’s 34-inch widescreen Thunderbolt 3 monitor for $399 (usually $799). Its 60Hz refresh rate and 5ms response time mean that it’s not an ideal gaming monitor, but you’ll rarely see prices dip this low on a color-calibrated monitor. The 3,440 x 1,440 resolution nano-IPS screen supports HDR10 and covers 98 percent of the DCI-P3 color gamuts, and 135 percent of sRGB.+++2
Twitter’s Jack Dorsey on edit button: ‘We’ll probably never do it’ 36 You’ve got to live with your mistakes, which include joining Twitter By James Vincent  Jan 15, 2020, 7:30am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Image: Wired Twitter users have been asking for the option to edit tweets ever since the service launched in 2006, but the company has always prevaricated, saying it’s looking into the problem, or considering it deeply, or a hundred other ways of saying “please stop bothering us about this, please.” Now, Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey has given perhaps the most definitive answer on the question to date. During a video Q&A with Wired, Dorsey was asked if there’ll be an edit button for Twitter in 2020. He replies, with a faint smile: “The answer is no.” Watch below: This isn’t a huge surprise. Although Twitter’s users have long argued for the benefits of an edit button, the company has always been ambivalent; happy to consider the question to placate its users, but never actually committing to a fix. As Twitter’s product lead Kayvon Beykpour said last summer: “Honestly, it’s a feature that I think we should build at some point, but it’s not anywhere near the top of our priorities.” In the video Q&A, Dorsey expands on this thinking, noting that the decision to leave out an edit button has its roots in Twitter’s original design. “We started as an SMS, text message service. And as you all know, when you send a text, you can’t really take it back,” he says. “We wanted to preserve that vibe, that feeling, in the early days.” “THESE ARE ALL THE CONSIDERATIONS ... BUT WE’LL PROBABLY NEVER DO IT.” He notes that the service has moved on since, but the company doesn’t consider an edit button worth it. There are good reasons for editing tweets, he says, like fixing typos and broken links, but also malicious applications, like editing content to mislead people. “So, these are all the considerations,” says Dorsey. “But we’ll probably never do it.” But again, note that there’s just a sliver of ambiguity in what he says (“we’ll probably never do it”), which leaves open the possibility of enabling edits in future. Whether out of strategy or spite, Dorsey just won’t fully commit to an answer, giving himself the option of changing his mind in future. At least, then, he understands the appeal of an edit button.+++2
Google just bought a startup that will help it list physical stores’ products online 3 The deal for Dublin-based Pointy will close in the coming weeks By Megan Farokhmanesh@Megan_Nicolett  Jan 14, 2020, 3:34pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Illustration by Alex Castro / The Verge Google is expanding its grasp on retailers. In a blog post today, Google announced that it’s purchased Pointy, a Dublin-based startup that helps local retailers sell their products online. The deal is expected to close in the weeks to come. Currently, Pointy allows sellers to either use an app or special bar code scanner to keep up-to-date inventory information on in-store products. That way, a shopper could more easily purchase a product online and pick it up in-store, rather than going with a larger retailer like Amazon or Walmart. Google Shopping already does inventory listings for nearby brick-and-mortar stores, so it makes sense it would want to improve how it gathers that data to ensure it’s as accurate and comprehensive as possible. “One of the challenges small merchants face is getting their in-store inventory information online in a way that is easy to manage and reliably up to date,” reads Google’s announcement post. “Since organizing the world’s information is core to what we do, we’ve been working to make it easier for local merchants to better showcase their products to interested shoppers on Google.” Neither Google nor Pointy disclosed the deal amount, but Yahoo Finance reports that the acquisition is a $163M deal. “By joining forces, we will be able to help people discover local stores and products on a much larger scale,” said Pointy’s founders in a statement. “We think this is the right way to accomplish what we set out to do — to bring the world’s retailers online and give them the tools they need to thrive.”+++2
Amazon no longer banning Marketplace sellers from using FedEx shipping 2 The ban lasted roughly one month By Nick Statt@nickstatt  Jan 14, 2020, 3:23pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Illustration by Alex Castro / The Verge Amazon has lifted its ban on FedEx Ground and Home shipping services after initially prohibiting its third-party Marketplace sellers from using the company over the holiday season. The news means Marketplace sellers will be able to use the potentially cheaper options from FedEx over Amazon’s own shipping platform and UPS starting today, January 14th, at 5PM ET, according to a notice sent out by Amazon. The news was reported on Tuesday by CNBC, and Amazon confirmed to The Verge that it did indeed send the email out today announcing the lifting of the ban. Amazon first imposed a ban on FedEx Ground and Home services last month, citing FedEx’s “delivery performance” and its concern for quality control with regards to package delivery during the high-volume holiday season. There was concern at the time from some small business owners that the ban would disproportionately affect more cost-conscious sellers who relied on FedEx’s cheaper options to still qualify for Prime, as the Prime label greatly improves product visibility and placement in Amazon search results and on category landing pages. AMAZON AND FEDEX ARE IN A HEATED COMPETITION OVER PACKAGE DELIVERY Amazon said the ban would be temporary, but it was also demanding sellers either switch to UPS or another provided shipping option to qualify for Prime or pay out of pocket for FedEx Express. Alternatively, sellers could remove Prime labels from their products and offer FedEx Ground or Home as an optional paid shipping option. According to CNBC, Amazon says it is once again content with FedEx’s delivery performance, so it’s lifting the ban today. Amazon and FedEx no longer work together after FedEx first declined to renew its FedEx Express contract with Amazon for air shipments in June and then ended its ground shipping contract two months later. Amazon now relies on a mix of UPS and its own Flex delivery platform that’s modeled like Uber as well as a series of third-party contractors. Although, until the initial FedEx ban, Amazon allowed its Marketplace sellers to use FedEx services. Amazon has spent billions of dollars over the last decade to build out its own delivery infrastructure as a way to eventually reduce costs it incurs by relying on third-party companies. In its last quarter, Amazon spent $9.6 billion on fulfillment, in part to support one-day Prime shipping. The company is now approaching the total package volume of both FedEx and UPS in the US and is on pace to surpass both.+++2
Microsoft patches Windows 10 security flaw discovered by the NSA 8 The NSA is accepting attribution for the first time in history By Tom Warren@tomwarren  Jan 14, 2020, 1:25pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Illustration by Alex Castro / The Verge Microsoft is patching a serious flaw in various versions of Windows today after the National Security Agency (NSA) discovered and reported a security vulnerability in Microsoft’s handling of certificate and cryptographic messaging functions in Windows. The flaw, which hasn’t been marked critical by Microsoft, could allow attackers to spoof the digital signature tied to pieces of software, allowing unsigned and malicious code to masquerade as legitimate software. The bug is a problem for environments that rely on digital certificates to validate the software that machines run, a potentially far-reaching security issue if left unpatched. The NSA reported the flaw to Microsoft recently, and it’s recommending that enterprises patch it immediately or prioritize systems that host critical infrastructure like domain controllers, VPN servers, or DNS servers. Security reporter Brian Krebs first revealed the extent of the flaw yesterday, warning of potential issues with authentication on Windows desktops and servers. MICROSOFT HAS RELEASED PATCHES FOR AFFECTED WINDOWS VERSIONS Microsoft is now patching Windows 10, Windows Server 2016, and Windows Server 2019. The software giant says it has not seen active exploitation of the flaw in the wild, and it has marked it as “important” and not the highest “critical” level that it uses for major security flaws. That’s not a reason to delay patching, though. Malicious actors will inevitably reverse-engineer the fix to discover the flaw and use it on unpatched systems. The NSA warns of exactly that in its own advisory, and suggests that this is a major vulnerability despite Microsoft not marking it as critical. “The vulnerability places Windows endpoints at risk to a broad range of exploitation vectors,” says an NSA statement. “NSA assesses the vulnerability to be severe and that sophisticated cyber actors will understand the underlying flaw very quickly and, if exploited, would render the previously mentioned platforms as fundamentally vulnerable.” It’s unusual to see the NSA reporting these types of vulnerabilities directly to Microsoft, but it’s not the first time the government agency has done so. This is the first time the NSA has accepted attribution from Microsoft for a vulnerability report, though. Krebs claims it’s part of a new initiative to make the agency’s research available to software vendors and the public. A previous NSA exploit targeting Windows’ file-sharing protocol, dubbed EternalBlue, leaked two years ago and caused widespread damage. It led to WannaCry ransomware and other variants locking up computers from the UK’s National Health Service to the Russian Ministry of the Interior. Microsoft was forced to issue an emergency patch for Windows XP, even though the operating system had reached end of support. Update, January 14th 2PM ET: Article updated with statement from the NSA.+++2
Some of Google’s biggest rivals are taking its side in a Supreme Court battle 9 A decade-long case is nearing its conclusion By Adi Robertson@thedextriarchy  Jan 14, 2020, 2:50pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Illustration by William Joel / The Verge After nearly a decade, Oracle’s copyright lawsuit against Google is close to settling an important question: can you own the basic commands of a coding language? The Supreme Court will reach an answer over the coming months, but a long list of academics, advocacy groups, and businesses — including some of Google’s competitors — are urging it to throw out Oracle’s claims. Outside groups filed over two dozen supporting briefs in Oracle v. Google yesterday, the overwhelming majority arguing that a Google loss would hurt computing as a whole. IBM and Microsoft both filed on behalf of Google, as did the CCIA and the Internet Association, two trade groups that represent a large swathe of the tech industry. A group of 72 intellectual property scholars and 83 computer scientists added their support. Even some less intuitive groups filed briefs — like the Auto Care Association and the printer cartridge company Static Control Components, which are also backing Google. THIS CASE HAS BEEN IN LEGAL PURGATORY FOR YEARS The case’s core arguments are well-trodden by now. In the mid-’00s, Google built its Android operating system with support for Sun Microsystems’ Java platform. It avoided licensing Java by largely building its own version of the underlying code — but it couldn’t avoid reproducing some lines that were key to the language. When Oracle acquired Sun in 2010, it claimed that Google had violated Java-related patents and copyrights. Google said that these lines comprised a tiny fraction of Android, though, and that they were the only way to let developers write functional code for Java. A court agreed with Google in 2012, permanently removing the patent claims from the case. But Oracle appealed the copyright ruling, and the feud descended into legal purgatory. A Federal Circuit court — known for specializing in patent, not copyright, law — declared that Oracle should get a new trial. A new trial ended with another Google win, Oracle appealed the decision, and the same court overturned the ruling again, setting Google up for a potential multibillion-dollar loss. Beyond the money, experts have warned that a Google loss could harm the whole computing ecosystem. It could allow companies to copyright and restrict the basic software interfaces that let third-party developers work with their platforms. One amicus brief pithily compares these interfaces to the functions on a remote control — if they become proprietary, companies could “effectively mandate the use of a separate remote control for each device in one’s home.” That’s why companies like Microsoft — which aren’t shy about criticizing Google in other areas — have lined up behind it. The current ruling “elevates functional code to the same level of copyright protection as the creative expression in a novel,” Microsoft writes in its brief. But modern software development “accepts and expects that much functional code can be reused by follow-on developers,” which requires flexible copyright law. Similarly, IBM asserts that “interoperability is the very foundation of the internet and of countless devices and services that depend upon it.” Oracle, meanwhile, has exhorted the court to “reject Google’s continuing efforts to avoid responsibility for copying Oracle’s innovations.” The company has garnered less approval — none of the filings yesterday supported it, although two were neutral to both parties. But it was backed last year by Trump’s Solicitor General Noel Francisco, who urged the Supreme Court (unsuccessfully) to let Oracle’s victory stand. A lot of the points in this week’s briefs have been made before. But after years of muddling through lower courts, this is the endgame for Oracle and Google. And the Supreme Court will have to decide on two big, related questions. First of all, can you copyright code like Oracle’s API? If not, Google (along with many other developers) is in the clear. If the code can be copyrighted, the court moves on to a second question: does Google’s borrowing count as fair use? If Google wins on either of these questions, the fight is effectively over. If Oracle wins, the companies will likely fight over how much Google should pay in damages — but the larger question will be settled, and not in the way that much of the tech world wants.+++2
DNA from detained immigrants will change the nature of the FBI’s genetic database The addition could exacerbate racial bias within the system By Nicole Wetsman  Jan 14, 2020, 12:01pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook (opens in new window) Share this on Twitter (opens in new window) SHARE All sharing options Illustration by Ana Kova Sending genetic material from detained immigrants to an FBI database could have consequences for both immigrant privacy protection and criminal justice in the US more generally, experts say. Last week, the Department of Homeland Security announced that the FBI’s national genetic database would house immigrant DNA, as part of a program that will collect DNA samples from people who are detained at the border. Those additions will fundamentally change the FBI’s system, both by expanding its scope and by amplifying the overrepresentation of people of color within the database. “This has major implications for characterizing who we think of as a criminal,” says Bradley Malin, co-director of the Center for Genetic Privacy and Identity in Community Settings at Vanderbilt University. Although President Trump has consistently claimed immigrants are criminals, they’re no more likely to commit crimes than people born in the US, and may even be less likely to commit crimes, according to research published in the Annual Review of Criminology. “Except for immigration offenses, these are law abiding people,” says Mechthild Prinz, a forensic DNA specialist and associate professor at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice. Adding immigrants — mostly people of color — to the FBI’s database accentuates the bias toward non-white people that already exists in the system. African Americans made up 40 percent of the database in 2011, for example, despite making up only around 13 percent of the population. Having a larger proportion of DNA from some groups means it’s more likely that crimes that group commits are solved, even if they’re not committing more crimes overall. That skews statistics around who has committed crimes, Malin says. “If you increase the number of records that only correspond to immigrants, that’s going to be the population we see as criminals.” “IF YOU INCREASE THE NUMBER OF RECORDS THAT ONLY CORRESPOND TO IMMIGRANTS, THAT’S GOING TO BE THE POPULATION WE SEE AS CRIMINALS.” The DNA Identification Act of 1994 first gave the FBI the authority to establish a national database of genetic information, called the Combined DNA Index System (CODIS) National DNA Index System (NDIS). At the time, the database only included records of people convicted of violent federal crimes. “It was supposed to catch recidivism,” Prinz says. “It was supposed to have the DNA of a sexual predator after their conviction, for example, so that they could be caught immediately if there was another sexual assault.” Over the years, state and federal laws expanded the scope of the database: it started to include genetic information from people convicted of misdemeanors and from people who were arrested — but not yet convicted — of major crimes. In 2013, the US Supreme Court ruled that states were allowed to collect and store DNA from arrestees. Justice Antonin Scalia wrote the dissenting opinion, noting, “As an entirely predictable consequence of today’s decision, your DNA can be taken and entered into a national DNA database if you are ever arrested, rightly or wrongly, and for whatever reason.” Right now, NDIS holds nearly 20 million genetic profiles, just under 4 million of which are from arrestees. NDIS HOLDS NEARLY 20 MILLION GENETIC PROFILES, JUST UNDER 4 MILLION OF WHICH ARE FROM ARRESTEES The new Department of Homeland Security policy expands the database again. Hundreds of thousands of people are held in immigrant detention facilities in the United States each year and would be subject to this new policy — including minors over the age of 14. Adding immigrants to NDIS adds them to the group of people the US government thinks are likely to commit a crime in the future, and it’s part of the first line of suspects when a federal crime is committed. The Department of Homeland Security explicitly notes that in its privacy impact assessment, saying, “prompt DNA-sample collection could be essential to the detection and solution of crimes [aliens] may have committed or may commit in the United States.” “It changes the purpose of the database a bit,” Prinz says. Instead of being used to keep tabs on people who are convicted of crimes, “it’s now more about future crimes.” Immigrant genetic information might also be in the database more permanently. People who have their genetic information added to NDIS after an arrest but aren’t convicted of a crime are able to ask that their genetic information be removed from the system. The Department of Homeland Security assessment doesn’t say if there will be a way for immigrants to do the same. Changing the demographics of NDIS, whether temporarily or permanently, can increase disparities within the criminal justice system, Malin says. It also may make immigrants even more likely to distrust the federal government. “You have to decide if you’ll be benefiting society by collecting this information more and faster than you’d be creating disparity and distrust,” he says. “I don’t think that’s been thought through.” NDIS has consistently expanded since it was established, and it’s not unreasonable to think that it might continue to in the future. In a paper published in the journal Science in 2018, Malin and his co-authors argued that a universal database — with genetic information from everyone in the US — is a better solution than allowing that evolution. “If you’re going to implicate a particular population that really has not done much, not even suspected of a violent crime, you might as well put everyone in the same boat,” he says. If trends continue, the current system might continue to expand in ways that exacerbate discrimination. Malin is concerned that groups outside of law enforcement that are looking to track or follow immigrants might ask for access to the information in the database. “If CODIS becomes a repository for genetic information from immigrants, it could be subject to scope creep very easily,” he says.+++2