My Experience Visiting Yala and Udawalawe National Parks Since Sri Lanka was my dream, my partner let me organize the whole trip. When researching the best safaris in Sri Lanka, I was hesitant about the national parks – which one was better? Would I have the chance to spot a leopard? I had a few criteria: I’m not a big fan of crowds, so I wanted to try and avoid big crowds and I had heard that Yala National Park can be super crowded. I wanted to maximize my chances to spot a leopard. I wanted to see the elephants. I wanted to do camping. When researching the options for safari, I wanted to have a great experience, but more importantly, I wanted to relax for my holidays. That said, I wanted to use a luxury camping operator that organize safaris instead of having to book accommodation and safaris separately. My research led me to a few companies. I emailed a few companies and I decided to book with Master Campers. Why? It was the only operator I found that was providing safaris in both Yala and Udawalawe. Most operators only go to one park and most of them only do Yala National Park. Since I’m not a big fan of crowds, I didn’t want to do two safaris in Yala. It was the cheapest option amongst the luxury camps (about USD 550 per person for two nights including two days of safaris, meals and drinks). It was highly recommended by other travel bloggers I know. Overall, we had an amazing experience in both parks and with Master Campers. Although, the camping wasn’t luxurious camping. Our tent was filled with mosquitoes and it looked much better on photos. I don’t know if we got the oldest tent since some tents seemed to be in better condition, but it wasn’t as nice as I thought it would be. Although, the meals were excellent with a romantic touch. The staff was lovely, helpful and super kind. The safari experiences were also amazing because we had great drivers but also animal spotters in the jeep with us. So, I’d say this part mattered the most to us and it erased the “not-so-luxurious-camping”. Would I do it again? YES! You could pay $100 or $200 more to get the proper luxury camping experience, but you won’t be able to visit both parks. So, overall, it doesn’t really matter – the safari experience is more important than the tent. If I had to pick between Yala and Udawalawe, I’d say I preferred Udawalawe National Park. Although, I did manage to spot two leopards in Yala National Park and this is quite unique! I’ll give you more information in the following section where I’ll be comparing both safaris, so keep reading to learn more. Udawalawe or Yala? Let’s compare both national parks. At the end of this section, you should be able to make a decision. You may want to visit both parks too. If so, I recommend booking with Master Campers. If your budget is limited, you can also book safaris separately. Udawalawe National Park Udawalawe National Park is known for its elephants. It’s one of the best safaris in Sri Lanka especially if you want to admire wild Asian elephants. Udawalawa is home to about 500 elephants. It’s common to see big herds of elephants across the park. Best time to visit: Anytime! You can see elephants at any time in the park since there is no seasonal variation. The best hours to visit are early morning and late afternoon to maximize your chances to spot elephants. Animals: You can expect to see elephants, crocodiles, peacocks, eagles, colorful birds, water buffalos and mongooses. Note that there’s a tiny number of leopards in the park, but they are hard to spot in Udawalawe. So, it’s not likely to happen. Landscape: The landscape is pretty flat. Depending on the season, you may see water holes, green forests and grass patches. Crowd: Udawalawe Park was pretty crowded especially in the morning. All the jeeps are waiting in a queue for the opening. Then, when the gate is open, all the jeep drivers are running to get tickets. So our first few stops in the park were also quite crowded. Later on, we had spots for ourselves. Since we had an animal spotter in the jeep with us, he knew where to go for tranquility. Although, most jeep driver without animal spotters call each other so great spots can get crowded quickly. General opinion: Overall, the safari in Udawalawe National Park was excellent. It was crowded if I compare to Yala (block 5), but we saw many elephants including babies. We had an amazing time. I highly recommend this park. Yala National Park Yala National Park is the second-largest national park in Sri Lanka. Located in the southeast of the country, it’s known for its leopards. Yala is divided into different blocks. The block 1 is the most popular one and can get super crowded. Yala was flooded a couple of weeks before our visit to Sri Lanka. That said, Master Campers recommended another block for our visit (block 5). This block has a higher concentration of leopards, and we got lucky – we spotted two leopards during our safari in Yala. Best time to visit: The best time to visit Yala is during the dry season (February to June). We visited in January and some of the roads were too muddy, wet since it rained the day before. Although, we were there during the best time to see the leopards. The best hours to see the leopards are early morning and late afternoons since the day time can get quite hot. Animals: You can expect to see elephants (in block 1), leopards, crocodiles, peacocks, eagles, monkeys, colorful birds, deers, water buffalos and mongooses. We didn’t see any elephants in block 5, but we have three on the road on our way out of the park. So, we got lucky again! Landscape: The landscape was more diverse in Yala. We saw water holes, reservoirs, forests, hills, etc. The landscape is prettier in Yala than in Udawalawe. Crowds: Block 1 is known to be super crowded, but since we went to block 5, we were sharing the whole block with a total of 6 or 7 jeeps. That said, it wasn’t crowded at all! It was amazing. General opinion: Our safari at Yala National Park was also great, but there was a lot of waiting. You got to be patient if you want to spot leopard. That said, you may be waiting in one spot for long periods of time. We were lucky enough to spot two leopards and it was a unique experience. Final Thoughts – Yala or Udawalawe? Overall, my partner and I preferred our safaris in Udawalawe National Parks. Although, we had a unique opportunity to see leopards in Yala National Park (block 5). We are glad we got to experience both parks. Keep reading if you want some packing tips for your safari in Sri Lanka as well as tips for choosing your tours and/or accommodation.+++5
Choosing a pair of glasses for a long one-way trip can feel like a bit of a daunting task. If you are planning on traveling to parts of the world where you will not be able to replace them easily, picking the right pair is incredibly important. We have compiled a list of tips to help you choose that perfect pair. If you do not want to read the whole article, and want a suggestion on where to go for some amazing frames, including stylish black glasses, click on the link. Table of Contents See what you are drawn too Find frames that match your face shape Match your frames with your personality traits Choose the right lens type See what you are drawn too The most important rule when you feel overwhelmed by glasses choices. If a particular pair catches your eyes, try them on! Don’t worry about the shape or size; just try them on and work from there. Often we get too caught up in thinking what the perfect pair of glasses should look like. Find frames that match your face shape Work out what face shape you have, certain glasses suit different face shapes more. You will generally find that your head shape first into the following categories. Oval – Balanced proportions, strong jawline, and a face a little bit taller than wide. Round– Short face with a forehead that is a little wide Square – Your face is as tall as it is wide and your jawline is square Heart – Your face is narrow at the bottom and wider at the top Oblong – Your face is narrow and long, with a thin nose Match your frames with your personality traits Glasses don’t just have to be for seeing, and they can also be a great fashion statement. Use your glasses as a way to show off your fashion sense. If you are a bold, confident person, go for bright, colorful frames. If you are quieter and more reserved, go for some classy, darker frames. There is an unlimited number of frames out there, find a pair that really feel like you! Choose the right lens type If your trip is going to include lots of adventuring, choosing a lens that is durable is essential. If you are going to be hiking, climbing, skiing, snowboarding, or surfing, make sure you go for a pair that are made of either polycarbonate or Trivex. They are the most impact-resistant of all the lens materials. Polycarbonate and Trivex are also a lot lighter than normal plastic glasses; this can make them a lot more comfortable to wear, especially if you need an extra-strong prescription. Polycarbonate and Trivex lenses usually have built-in protection against the sun’s UV rays and are really hard to scratch. Although the prices for Trivex and Polycarbonate are usually higher, in our eyes, they are totally worth every penny. Going on a one-way trip is exciting and scary. There are lots of things you need to really plan in detail. Hopefully, by following these tips, choosing the glasses you are going to take with you will be a much easier task.+++5
If you’re planning your trip to Sri Lanka, make sure to add Ella to your itinerary. This cute town is an excellent base to explore the area and the tea country. In this guide, you’ll find information to help you plan your stay in Ella as well as the best things to do while you’re there. Note that we stayed two nights in Ella and we both agreed on the fact that we should have stayed in the area longer. Why? It’s a good base and some of the interesting places to visit are a bit far from the city. That said, if we had more time, we could have explored further. Since our time was limited, we stayed only two nights. We arrived in Ella from Nuwara Eliya. Our following destination was Udawalawe National Park. Table of Contents Where is Ella? How long do you need in Ella? Is Ella worth visiting? Best Things to Do in Ella, Sri Lanka Ella Gap Little Adam Peak Nine Arch Bridge Ella Spice Garden Cooking Class Ravana Falls Where to Stay in Ella, Sri Lanka Where is Ella? Ella is a small town located inland towards the south of Sri Lanka. As you can see on the map below, it’s not too far from Kandy, Nuwara Eliya as well as Udawalawe and Yala National Parks. How long do you need in Ella? As I mentioned above, we stayed two nights in Ella and we felt like it wasn’t enough time to explore the area. Depending on what you are planning to do in the area, I’d recommend at least three nights and possibly four if you’re planning on getting outside the city to see Diyaluma Falls, Lipton’s Seat, Horton Plains National Park or Adam Peak. Is Ella worth visiting? Absolutely! Ella was one of our favorite destinations in Sri Lanka. We love nature, the breathtaking scenery, the options for hiking, the food and more importantly our hotel. We stayed in a small guesthouse with amazing views. It made our stay in Ella very special. Keep reading to find out the name of the hotel. Best Things to Do in Ella, Sri Lanka Let’s talk about what to do in Ella. Since our time was limited, we visited most of these places, but there’s also a few more that we wish we had time to visit. Ella Gap Ella Gap refers to the gap between Ella Rock and Little Adam’s Peak. Our hotel was located perfectly to enjoy the views of Ella Gap. Waking up and having breakfast with this view was fantastic. For those staying in Ella town, you could take a tuk-tuk or rent a scooter and head in this direction to look at the views. ella gap Little Adam Peak While the “big” Adam Peak is located outside Ella, there’s also Little Adam Peak right in Ella. You can save the location here. Little Adam Peak is one of the best things to do in Ella and most travelers will head there during their stay. It’s a short hike (about 20 to 30 minutes) and there’s no entrance fee. You can go all the way to the top and walk around the area while admiring the views. The hike is easy and short but I’d recommend you head there early or for sunset time. We were there around 10 AM and already the sun was shining. We got a “nice” sunburnt and it felt so hot already. adam little peak ella There’s also a lot of activities available on the mountain. There’s a zipline (since 2019), a climbing spot as well as quad bike tours. We opted for the quad bike trip. The staff told us it was easy, but I thought it was quite tough. Since you’re basically driving around the tea plantations (on a hill) some of the turns were pretty steep. It was a lot of fun though. quad bike ella To reach Little Adam Peak you can take a tuk-tuk or rent a scooter. If you like hiking, you could also consider hiking Ella Rock and/or Adam Peak. If you have more time, you could also get to Lipton Seat to enjoy the panoramic views over the tea plantations. Nine Arch Bridge One of the most photographed spots in Ella is definitely the Nine Arch Bridge. After our adventures at Little Adam Peak, we walked to the Nine Arch Bridge (it wasn’t that far, we followed the indications from 98 Acres Resort & Spa. The trails brought us here. nine arch bridge ella Then, we walked down to the Nine Arch Bridge, drank a coconut and we took a lot of photos of course. To reach Nine Arch Bridge you can either walk there from Little Adam Peak or you can get a tuk-tuk driver. There’s no entrance fee. If you’re planning on taking photos of the famous blue train, you can expect to see it at these times 9:30, 11:30, 15:30, 16:30 and 17:30. nine arch bridge ella Ella Spice Garden Cooking Class Since we love to do cooking classes, we had read about the cooking class offered by Ella Spice Garden. Since this cooking class is quite popular, several shops are trying to “steal their name”. For example, there’s another place called Ella Spice and Herbs Garden to confuse travelers. The cooking class by Ella Spice Garden costs LKR 2000 per person. We started our class with a cup of tea to meet the other participants. Then, we walked into the spice garden to learn about the different spices. During the class, we cooked potato curry, garlic curry, dhal curry, papadam, and coconut sambol. To book this cooking class, you must head to the Ella Spice Garden directly and you must pay the full amount or a deposit. Since you won’t be able to book online or over the phone, as soon as you arrive in Ella, you should head there to book your spot. When it’s the peak season, they offer a class for lunch and for dinner. The class takes about three hours. To get there, you can walk from Ella Town or you can take a tuk-tuk. cooking class ella Ravana Falls During our stay in Ella, we went to Ravana Falls by tuk-tuk. It’s about 20 minutes drive. We were back in town about one hour later. Ravana Falls is nice, but it’s not the biggest waterfall in the area. If you have more time, you should head to Diyaluma Falls instead. Ravana Falls Sri Lanka Where to Stay in Ella, Sri Lanka During your stay in Ella, you can opt for different spots. We stayed in a small guesthouse called Blooming Rose Ella. As I said above, the views were amazing and the couple who owns the guesthouse was lovely. Otherwise, you can stay in Ella Town or around the Nine Arch Bridge. Here are a few options for every budget: Budget: Ella New Super Hostel / The Travel Corner / The 1964 Boutique Hostel Mid-range: Blooming Rose Ella / Leisure Dream Inn / Saffron Eco Cottage Luxury: The One Ella / Chill Ville / EKHO Ella+++5
Traveling around Thailand? If you love Thailand, you may want to extend your Thai Visa to stay longer. In the past year, I spent a lot of time in Thailand and I had to extend my visa a few times. This time, I renewed my visa at Krabi Immigration Office and it was the fastest place I had ever been to extend my Thai visa. Since I was planning on living in Koh Lanta, we made a quick pitstop in Krabi before heading to Koh Lanta. You can read more on how to get to Koh Lanta from Krabi here. In Thailand, you can extend your visa for an extra 30 days by visiting one of the immigration offices. You don’t need to do what we call a visa run, you can extend your stay without leaving the country. Whether you have a 30-day visa or a 60-day visa, you can extend it one more time by visiting the immigration office. It’s pretty simple, so keep reading to learn more about the visa extension process. If you aren’t sure if you can get a visa for Thailand, you can find more information here! Not in Krabi? Consult this list of immigration offices. Most big cities have their own offices. You can also check the process for Chiang Mai or Koh Samui visa extension here. Table of Contents Krabi Visa Extension | The Process Krabi Immigration Office | Opening Hours & Map How to Get to Krabi Immigration Office How to Get the Visa Extension in Krabi Where to Stay in Krabi Krabi Visa Extension | The Process If you’re planning on extending your Thai visa from Krabi, here’s an easy step by step guide. Note that you will need a bit of time, but you should be able to get your visa in one day. It took us about 20 minutes to ask for the visa and to get it. Note that the Krabi immigration office is a bit smaller than the other ones I visited so far. We got there a bit before their opening time, so we can be the first to be served (it worked, ha). Planning your upcoming adventures? Travel by bus! (It's cheap!) Asian Public Transportation Bangkok Chiang Mai Find Tickets Powered by 12Go Asia system Krabi Immigration Office | Opening Hours & Map Monday	8:30AM-4:30PM Tuesday 8:30AM-4:30PM Wednesday	 8:30AM-4:30PM Thursday	 8:30AM-4:30PM Friday	 8:30AM-4:30PM Saturday	Closed Sunday	Closed How to Get to Krabi Immigration Office You can either rent a motorbike or call a Grab driver to get there. The immigration office is quite far from the old town, but since Krabi is quite small, you can probably get there within 10-20 minutes. How to Get the Visa Extension in Krabi Let’s dive into the important stuff – in this section, I’ll give you details on what you need and what to expect when it comes to getting your Thai visa extension in Krabi. What You’ll Need to Extend your Visa in Krabi Here’s a list of the Thailand visa requirements you’ll have to provide to extend your Thai visa: Photocopy of your passport Photocopy of your current visa and immigration card Photo Visa extension form (note that in Krabi, we didn’t have to fill-up the form, they printed it and entered the information directly in their computer, so we saved a bit of time.) TBH 1900 in cash We asked our hotel receptionist to make the photocopies for us. This way we could save time at the immigration office. Usually, you can find a place to make copies around the office, but we didn’t notice any photocopy shop around the office. Although we got there early, so we may have missed it. When entering the immigration office in Krabi, you will have to get a number. Then, they will call your number, ask for your address and phone number. Then, they will take a photo of you and print the form. In the end, you’ll have to pay for the visa and you will get your passport afterward. Since we were the first people at the office, our numbers were the first to be called so we didn’t have to wait. We were out in about 20 minutes. Before you leave the Krabi Immigration Office, make sure to double-check the visa!+++5
Wondering how many days you need to visit Chiang Mai?  If you’re planning your Thailand itinerary, there’s a chance you decided to visit Northern Thailand. In this post, we will make sure to tell you all about the main things to do in Northern Thailand so you can pick the right amount of days to visit Chiang Mai. Before we start, we’ll still give you a quick answer. If you’re planning on sticking to Chiang Mai, 2-3 days should be more than enough. Although, if you’re planning on using Chiang Mai as a base to travel around Northern Thailand, I’d suggest you stay for a week. Keep reading to understand why. Table of Contents Why Visit Chiang Mai? Is Chiang Mai Worth Visiting? So, how long do you need in Chiang Mai? Planning Your Stay in Chiang Mai When’s the best time to visit Chiang Mai? Where should you stay in Chiang Mai? Getting to Pai from Chiang Mai Getting to Chiang Rai from Chiang Mai Why Visit Chiang Mai? Chiang Mai is a big city located in the north of Thailand. It’s a popular hub for digital nomads, English teachers, muay Thai fighters, etc. Many expats picked Chiang Mai and it’s easy to understand why – with so many shopping malls, great restaurants and incredible cuisine, there’s a lot to love about Chiang Mai. Many travelers decide to head to Chiang Mai during their Thailand trip for a few reasons: They want to hike and chase waterfalls They want to spend a day with elephants They want to visit Chiang Rai and its beautiful temples (read more about Chiang Rai here) They are coming for the famous lantern festival and Loi Krathong They want to go on a road-trip around the famous Samloeng Loop They heard of a small town called Pai – which is only a few hours away from Chiang Mai With that in mind, many people come to Chiang Mai to explore their surroundings. In fact, the city of Chiang Mai doesn’t offer as many options for traveling. Think about markets, temples and amazing food – but apart, from that, you are likely to go explore outside the city. Whether you head to Doi Suthep temple, Pai or Chiang Rai – you’re likely to go further and this is why you may need to stick around longer. Is Chiang Mai Worth Visiting? Planning your upcoming adventures? Travel by bus! (It's cheap!) Asian Public Transportation Bangkok Chiang Mai Find Tickets Powered by 12Go Asia system Absolutely! If you need to limit your Thailand itinerary – you may have to pick between the islands and the North. If that’s the case, you may want to pick the islands (but, I’m a beach kind of girl). If it’s your second visit to Thailand, you should head to the North to experience something different. Chiang Mai is an excellent base to visit places like Pai and Chiang Rai. That said, if you’re planning on visiting Laos next, it’s a smart stop along the way. So, how long do you need in Chiang Mai? If you’re planning on staying in the city to visit the markets, do a bit of shopping, see the temples and eat a Khao Soy, I’d recommend you stay for two nights and three days. If you’re planning on doing day trips to see the elephants, to go to Pai and Chiang Rai, then I’d suggest you stay for a week. This would include 2-3 nights in Pai. Planning Your Stay in Chiang Mai Now, let’s do some travel planning! In this section, you’ll find useful information to plan your stay in Chiang Mai. When’s the best time to visit Chiang Mai? The best time to visit Chiang Mai is between October and January. It’s not the warmest time of the year, but you’ll be in the sunshine. It’s also ideal if you’re planning on going to Chiang Mai to attend the lantern festival. From February to April/Mai, is the burning/smoking season. This means the air quality is poor since it’s the time of the year where they burn the fields. It’s not recommended to go to Chiang Mai during this time. From June to October is the rainy season. Usually, the rain only lasts a couple of hours per day, but this could cause problems if you’re planning a road-trip or a hike. Where should you stay in Chiang Mai? I’d recommend you stay in the Old City if you like markets and temples. Otherwise, you could stay in the Nimman area (close to Maya Shopping Mall). You’ll also find markets there, but also lots of modern hotels and restaurants. I prefer Nimman since it’s a bit less crowded than the Old City. Nimman is also known to be the expat area. Book your accommodation in Chiang Mai Getting to Pai from Chiang Mai If you’re planning on heading to Pai from Chiang Mai, you can read this post where I share my experience driving to Pai. Or you can browse your options here and book a van to Pai. Book your accommodation in Pai Getting to Chiang Rai from Chiang Mai To get to Chiang Rai, you can either decide to stay there for the night or organize a day-trip from Chiang Mai. Since it takes about 4 hours to get there, it’s possible to do it in one day, but it will be tiring. Also, I would not recommend driving there since there’s a lot of construction on the way, which is not ideal for scooters (dirt and gravel path). You can book your van to Chiang Rai here.+++5
Thinking of visiting Chiang Rai while in Thailand? Known for its beautiful temples, Chiang Rai is located in the Northeast of Thailand. If you’re visiting Chiang Mai during your stay in Thailand, why not add one day to visit the famous temples of Chiang Rai. Wondering if it’s possible to visit Chiang Rai in one day? Yes. We visited Chiang Rai on a day trip from Chiang Mai. It was a packed day, but it was a lovely experience. We visited Chiang Rai with Tinggly. Tinggly offers gift boxes for travelers. It’s an excellent gift for travelers, expats and digital nomads. You can pick amongst a wide variety of epic travel experiences. Ready to visit Chiang Rai? In this post, you’ll find details on how to see Chiang Rai in one day. If you want to do this exact trip, I’d suggest booking through Tinggly (you’ll find more details at the end of this post.) Table of Contents Itinerary Chiang Rai, Thailand Pick up from Chiang Mai, Thailand Mae Kachan Hot Spring & Geyser Black House, Chiang Rai Lunch Khao Soi Blue Temple, Chiang Rai White Temple, Chiang Rai Wat Saeng Kaeo Phothiyan, Chiang Rai Drop off in Chiang Mai, Thailand Advantages of Booking your Day Trip to Chiang Rai with Tinggly Itinerary Chiang Rai, Thailand Pick up from Chiang Mai, Thailand Our driver picked us early in the morning (at 6h30AM). We stopped a few times on our way to Chiang Rai since it’s a long drive (about 4 hours). Our driver suggested doing the itinerary in a different order so we can avoid the crowds. We obviously said yes! Mae Kachan Hot Spring & Geyser One of our stops on the way to Chiang Rai was at the hot spring. It’s a great occasion to rest, walk around and admire some unexpected geysers. We sat and dipped our feet in the hot water. It was quite relaxing. If you’re hungry, you could even get a boiled egg. Yes – they boil eggs in the hot spring water there. Black House, Chiang Rai Planning your upcoming adventures? Travel by bus! (It's cheap!) Asian Public Transportation Bangkok Chiang Mai Find Tickets Powered by 12Go Asia system black house chiang rai Our next stop was Baan Dam, also known as the Black House. It is a very unusual but unique tourist spot in its own way. It was created by local artist Thawan Duchanee and it used to be his art studio. Now, it’s a museum and the complex comprises 40 buildings that are all different shapes and sizes, spread out across the big garden. The Black House was built in the traditional Lanna style and painted completely black although you can find influence from other countries like Myanmar or Indonesia, too. A large collection of animal bones and remains, furniture, paintings, and sculptures were meant to showcase his artwork but because of its dark color and atmosphere, it’s also called ‘Hell Temple’ by many people. Although, once you know the story behind it and look around, you will get a better picture and understand the meaning behind this surreal and mysterious place. I would not recommend this place for animal lovers and vegetarians since you will see a lot of animal bones and remains. Lunch Khao Soi khao soi thailand Khao soi or Khao soy is a traditional dish inspired by Northern Thai cuisine. We’re basically talking about egg noodles and chicken in yellow curry. Note that you can also request a vegetarian version of it. It’s recommended to add lime and pickles within the soup. We had a delicious Khao Soi experience in a local restaurant not too far from the Black House. You can save the location here. Blue Temple, Chiang Rai blue temple chiang rai Our next stop was the Blue Temple. Wat Rong Suea Ten or the Blue Temple was completed in 2016 (yet still a work in process). It was designed by Putha Kabkaew. Contemporary and modern architecture and overall structure aren’t completely as traditional as other temples and it features many carved statues of the Buddha, Nagas, Garuda and other beings from Thai Buddhist cosmology. Inside walls and ceilings are covered with beautiful, colorful, detailed paintings, and the main interior and exterior colors of the temple are blue and golden. You can find a big, porcelain white Buddha with blue lights in the centre of the room inside and other white Buddha on the outside, close to the entrance. The fun fact is that Wat Rong Suea Ten translates to Dancing Tiger Temple, not a Blue Temple. In the past, there were, apparently, tigers living in the area and there was an old abundant temple. White Temple, Chiang Rai white temple chiang rai Then, we went to the White Temple or Wat Rong Khun in Thai. It looks like heaven but carries aspects of hell, too! This extravagant temple was designed by Thai artists Chalermchai Kositpipat who brought his vision into life. White color shows the purity of the Buddha and the temple is full of Buddhist symbolism that combines aspects of heaven, hell, and religion in the architecture, paintings, and mirror decorations. The entrance to the temple is by passing through the narrow bridge that is surrounded by deformed heads and hands, representing the Buddhist belief that suffering must come before salvation. Inside the temple, you can find paintings that are also contradicting because lower you look, paintings portray war and hell but higher you look, the more heavenly and majestic paintings are. He also brought some modern aspects by including superheroes like Batman and Spiderman. The template hasn’t been officially finished to date and it’s a work in progress since the artist continues to make small alterations and additions. Wat Saeng Kaeo Phothiyan, Chiang Rai Wat Saeng Kaeo Phothiyan, Chiang Rai Our last stop was at Wat Saeng Kaeo Phothiyan on our way back. This one is not so well known, but it’s 100% worth the visit! You can save the location here. The name can be translated into Glass Light or more wordy translation “A lotus that has sprouted and emerged from the water and emits light like a sparkling gem with brilliant light.” The huge and impressive complex is full of colors and you can find a lot of bizarre statues spread around the complex. When you walk upstairs towards the main entrance, you will enter the main hall where you can see a big golden Buddha statue and if you continue, you will get to the open space garden with large statues like Ganesh and statues representing venerating monks from Northern Thailand. Small details and decorations in combination with numerous statues are definitely making this place unique. However, there are some modern touches to it like the devil wearing converse or statue having a phone in a back pocket which makes it a cool place to visit! Drop off in Chiang Mai, Thailand Our driver dropped us off at our apartment in Chiang Mai. What a day! Advantages of Booking your Day Trip to Chiang Rai with Tinggly tinggly experiences Tinggly offers many Thailand experiences. You can consult the full list here. Here are some of the perks that come with booking via Tinggly. Amazing local operator: Tinggly has partnered with great tour operators around the world. They only offer high-quality travel experiences with an original twist. Kind local guide: Our local guide, Kiki, was great! He contacted us the day before to confirm everything and he adapted the itinerary to our needs (for example: avoiding the crowds in touristy spots by suggesting to reverse the itinerary). Fun couple activity: Tinggly has different sets of activities for solo travelers and for couples. We love the couple’s activities because we don’t like large group tours. Having our own guide was fantastic.+++5
Already abroad? Did you just realize you left without travel insurance? Or did you forget to renew your travel insurance? Finding travel insurance after departure can be tricky. Many travel insurance companies don’t allow you to buy insurance once you left. We found two companies that allow you to buy insurance after departure. Note that there are more than two, but most companies are restricted to a region and since you guys come from different countries, I thought I should focus on the global ones. Table of Contents SafetyWing How much does it cost? How do I do it? Why should I choose SafetyWing? Some downsides to SafetyWing World Nomads How much does it cost? How do I do it? Why should I choose World Nomads? Some downsides to World Nomads SafetyWing Buying post-departure travel insurance could not be any easier with SafetyWing. In fact, if you are from Canada, Australia, or the states of Washington, Maryland or New York; you can ONLY purchase SafetyWing Insurance after you have left the country. As I said, many companies don’t allow you to purchase insurance after departure. How much does it cost? SafetyWing medical insurance starts at $36.96 for 4 weeks(28 days) and you can either put an end date on your coverage OR subscribe for automatic renewals so that you won’t go a day without your insurance. Children under the age of 10 can be added to a group plan for free (limited to 2 children per group). How do I do it? Once you have created an account with SafetyWing and filled in your personal information such as your name, home address and country; you can register for travel insurance easily for all of your future adventures. Signing up for SafetyWing travel insurance is done in five easy steps: Insurance – Choose whether you need coverage up until a specific date or indefinitely Destinations – Select all of the countries that you plan on visiting. If you are not sure where your travels are going to take you, no worries! Just choose you first stop and any others if you need to prove you have travel insurance for a visa to those countries. Group members – If you are doing a group trip with friends that have matching passports, you can get SafetyWing travel insurance for the whole group all at once. The price doesn’t change but it is much more convenient to have your insurance details all in one place. Summary – Double check all of your information to avoid any complications if you need to make a claim. Payment – SafetyWing accepts Visa, Mastercard, American Express, and Discover Card through their secure, web-payment system. Why should I choose SafetyWing? SafetyWing is easy to understand, sign up, and file a claim. They also have an agreement with multiple hospitals both outside and inside the US where you can file a claim directly through your insurance; which means you won’t have to pay upfront for your medical services. They also include coverage for your short visits home. For all countries except the United States, you will be secure for 30 days within a 90 day period whereas American citizens are insured for 15 days. Some downsides to SafetyWing There are not many downsides to choosing SafetyWing but the key thing to note is that they do not service the countries of North Korea, Cuba, and Iran. They also only provide insurance for people up to the age of 69. Visit SafetyWing World Nomads If you have looked at any blogs or done any research at all to prepare you for your trip, you will have most likely already heard about World Nomads Travel Insurance. Sign up with World Nomads before you leave to make sure you are secured but don’t worry, you can also purchase travel insurance after departure. Just keep in mind that depending on where you are from, your travel insurance will not be put into effect up to 3 days after you have purchased it. How much does it cost? The cost of your insurance with World Nomads is determined by a few factors; where you are from, how long you need coverage for, and which plan you would like to choose. World Nomads offers two different levels of protection. The Standard vs. Explorer plan offers the same features, just differs in how much you are covered for. As an example; 4 weeks(28 days) for a Canadian traveling to Thailand cost $149.84 CAD on the Standard Plan and $193.52 CAD for an Explorer Plan. (It is more expensive than SafetyWing.) How do I do it? World Nomads has also made it an easy 4 steps to acquire travel insurance: From the homepage, fill out your travel details to get a quote for the duration of your travels. You can then review and decide which plan you will opt for purchasing. Check to make sure that any activities that you are thinking about doing on your trip are covered under your chosen insurance plan. If you even considering engaging in anything remotely adrenaline-pumping on your journey such as scuba diving, you want to make sure you don’t need to pay the sports premium. This part is easy, you are almost done! If you have bought with World Nomads before (which is kind of weird that you are here) you can sign in to check out effortlessly. At the bottom, before heading to the next page, they have a reminder of their policies as well as any other alerts that you should be aware of. Pay for your insurance! World Nomad accepts payments via Visa and Mastercard. Why should I choose World Nomads? World Nomads has been in the business of protecting fellow nomads around the world for a while now. It started with people who are travelers themselves that were seeking a better and more secure insurance option, so they have a good idea about what you are looking for. They just do good things for the world. When choosing World Nomads for your travel insurance, you are supporting a company that does what it can to give back to the communities of these incredible destinations around the world as well as the community of travelers through donations and scholarships. And lastly, you can buy travel insurance after you have left for your destination! Some downsides to World Nomads Honestly, the website is a little confusing, the options are a little overwhelming, and the insurance is a little pricey. Can you really put a price on your safety? That is up to you to decide.+++5
When you picture the Yukon, what do you see? Lots of snow. Lots of skiing. Lots of cozy evenings nestled up to a fire in a chalet. Fair enough, but there are so many other awesome things you can do in Whitehorse, the capital city of Yukon. Whitehorse is considered one of the largest northern cities in Canada and was once a major hub during the gold rush in 1898. It might be a bit chilly in this winter wonderland but don’t expect the locals to be hibernating. In fact, Whitehorse may be small but it has an incredibly lively community. Whether you are looking to take part in adrenaline-pumping activities or spend your evenings chasing the northern lights, Whitehorse has something for you. Table of Contents Aurora Hunting Viking Adventure in the Wilderness Hiking around the capital city Snowshoeing in the Winterwonderland Dog Sledding Yukon Wildlife Preserve, watch the animals of the North Takhini Hot Springs, soak your body in hot water of the natural hot springs Don’t go alone, go with EPIC NORTH! Aurora Hunting northern light yukon One of the biggest draws to the north is, of course, the infamous northern lights. The phenomenon of the aurora borealis can technically occur all year round but our ability to see them is determined by a few factors; how dark it is, how clear the sky is, and how lucky are you feeling? The location also plays a huge part in whether or not you are timely enough to get a glimpse of the dancing aurora. Head outside the city by either booking a tour or renting a car to drive yourself. Driving just an hour outside of Whitehorse to the Carcross Desert or Marsh Lake will meet you with unbelievable views for stargazing and a higher chance to spot the colorful hues of the aurora borealis. Viking Adventure in the Wilderness Easily the most exhilarating thing to do in Whitehorse is to hop on a Viking and go on an off-road adventure in the wilderness. Take this moment to see another side of the Yukon by touring different trails to stunning viewpoints without being restricted to the main roads. People that love ATVing will not want to miss taking one of these snowmobiles out for a spin! Hiking around the capital city If you love climbing mountains and taking in an incredible beauty that nature has to offer, then a trip to Whitehorse is in order for you! No matter what time of year you choose to visit, the options are quite honestly endless when thinking of where to go hiking around this capital city. You can find treks at a variety of difficulty levels in close proximity to the city. A popular trail is the Fish Lake Loop which is a moderate hike with rewarding views at the summit. Find a tour if you are a bit pressed for time in order to make the most of your trekking experience. Snowshoeing in the Winterwonderland Love hiking but want to add an extra element to your adventures in Whitehorse, Yukon? Try trekking around in the snow! Snowshoes distribute your weight and allow you to walk on top of the snow-covered trails, instead of sink into them. You can typically find snowshoeing bundled on a tour with a bunch of other fun, frosty things to do around Whitehorse. If you prefer to go on a self-guided trek, there is an abundance of places where you can rent snowshoes as well. Dog Sledding dog sledding yukon If you are looking for a unique experience in Whitehorse, then dog mushing may be the thing for you. There are many organized tours that give you the opportunity to get acquainted with a pack of trained sled dogs who are ready to whisk you away on a journey through the hinterlands of the Yukon. You can choose your own escapade; from short, half-day tours to week-long immersion programs; there is something for everyone! Yukon Wildlife Preserve, watch the animals of the North wildlife preserve yukon Have you ever wanted to see a moose in real life? The Yukon Wildlife Reserve has created a safe habitat for the public to see and learn about many native Canadian wildlife species. This includes moose, mountain goats, wood bison and many more interesting animals that you wouldn’t normally get a chance to see in the wild. Wander around the 5km loop and explore the reserve by foot on your own or join a guided bus tour. Their tours are led by knowledgeable staff members who are prepared to stop and tell you all about the remarkable animals around the park. Takhini Hot Springs, soak your body in hot water of the natural hot springs Takhini Hot Springs Oh yes! You know we saved one of the best and most relaxing things to do in Whitehorse for last. After taking part in all the exciting winter activities, why not wind down and relax in Takhini’s natural hot springs. The site consists of one large pool that has two sections; a hot side that sits at around 42 degrees celsius and a cool side at 36 degrees. They even have after dark hours with a discounted rate; although these are specifically a children-free time due to safety regulations. This changes with the time that the sun sets throughout the winter months; starting as early as 4 pm in December. Don’t go alone, go with EPIC NORTH! EPIC NORTH Tour Experiences operates out of Whitehorse and is the leading Tour Operator for adventure & sightseeing tours in the Yukon and Alaska. They offer all 7 of these awesome things you can do in Whitehorse as comfortable, tailor-made tours. Your hosts with EPIC NORTH have more than 15 years of experience traveling around the northern regions of Canada and Alaska. They radiate with passion and are ready to share that experience with every single one of their guests. The Yukon is one of those destinations that can satiate your craving for adventure. Every day, a new exciting excursion awaits to take you deep into the wilderness. Explore a diverse ecosystem of flora and fauna; unique to this northern region. Seek out breathtaking landscapes and panoramic vistas. Unwind in a natural hot spring. Regardless if you choose to experience Yukon’s everlasting daylight in the summer or the darkest nights of the winter, there is no shortage of things to do on your visit. Which of these activities has gotten you eager to book your trip to Whitehorse? Don’t let the cool temperatures stop you from uncovering everything that the Yukon has to offer. Pack your warmest jacket, Whitehorse is ready for you!+++5
Are you ready to pack your bag and start a new adventure? Packing for the hostel life is easy – but let’s be honest. It’s also very easy to forget a few things that can make your life in hostels difficult. To help you out, I decided to create a list of all the things needed for hostel stays. If you’re feeling unsure about what to bring along with you, this will surely help you. Before we start, let’s go over some important points when it comes to backpacking abroad. If you’re planning on going on a backpacking trip – most people obviously choose a backpack. It’s easier to walk around with a backpack than if you have a suitcase. I personally love having a backpack with wheels. Basically, the idea is to be able to access your things easily. Imagine if you arrive at your hostel in the middle of the night. If you are kind and you don’t want to wake up everyone in the dorm, you would love to be able to reach your stuff easily without having to empty the whole content of your bag. Am I right? If your answer is yes, you need to get a bag that opens at the top… and at the front. It’s going to make your life easy, trust me. That said, I’d suggest you pick smaller luggage – a carry-on is good enough for long backpacking trips. I traveled with a carry-on only in many countries without any problems. Bonus: I saved money on luggage on low-cost airlines. Choosing the right packing method When I first started traveling, I used to roll my clothes to save space in my backpack. It was a great method, but for the past year, I’ve been using packing cubes and my life is easier now. I know exactly where my underwear is and believe me – it saves me some time. Another alternative to consider when it comes to the packing method would be the Rolo Bag. This bag is basically a travel organizer which becomes very helpful when you search for stuff in your backpack. You can get a 15% discount using the code FIXEDBACKPACK. How do hostels work? If you’re planning your first stay in a hostel, you can read my tips for first-timers in hostels here. Basically, you have the option between dorms or private rooms. If you’re thinking of staying in dorms, you should definitely think of a safety measure to keep your valuables safe. Usually, staying in a dorm means you will have a bunk bed or a pod – which becomes your personal space in the shared room. Hostels might provide lockers, linen and towels, but you must check this prior to your stay as some don’t provide towels for example. Hostel Packing List Now, let’s jump to the packing section. It’s time to fill up your bag with all the things you need in a hostel. This packing list aims to give you an idea of what you need apart from your clothes and other special needs. Note that the following links will bring you directly to Amazon. These are affiliate links at no extra costs to you. Padlock When picking a hostel, you should always pick one that provides lockers. This is why having a padlock is very useful to keep your valuables and your passport safe. If you’re staying in a room without lockers, you could always lock your backpack with the padlock. I’d recommend you get at least two padlocks with you. I usually travel with two small padlocks and it’s very useful abroad. It’s not only valuable for hostels but also if you’re going on a bus journey. Locking your backpack is a great way to avoid any theft and stolen stuff. Earplugs When staying in hostels, you will likely bump into snorers at some point. Having earplugs with you will ensure the quality of your sleep and this is very important if you don’t want to see the grumpiest version of yourself. Not only you will deal with snorers, but you will likely hear alarms for early flights, party animals coming back in the dorm in the middle of the night. Earplugs are a lifesaver when it comes to hostel life. Eye mask Having an eye mask when staying in a hostel is another great way to have a better sleep. Imagine if your roommates decide to turn on the light in the middle of the night (sadly, it happens often). There’s no reason to wake up for people’s lack of courtesy. Your eyemask should keep you from waking up with the light. Universal charger When traveling abroad, you will surely encounter different types of power sockets. When picking a hostel, you should try to get one that offers power sockets for each bed (these are the best hostels out there). Imagine having your own power socket… without having the right charger. Ha. Keep your mobile charged at all times with a universal charger. Also, I would recommend you to have a USB cable since some hostels only offer the USB option. Having a charger with multiple cables is also a great idea since you might want to charge your camera while you’re at it. Finally, why not get a power bank too. For these sad times, where the room will have only one power socket, you might need to charge your phone with a power bank. Quick-dry towel While some hostels offer fresh towels to their guests, most hostels don’t. (Sometimes, you have to pay an extra fee for it.) This is why I always travel with a quick-dry towel. Whether I use it for the shower or to go to the beach – having a quick-dry towel when I travel is essential. Now, what’s the main difference between a normal towel and a quick-dry one? Imagine if you take a shower and have to pack quickly for your next flight. Are you really willing to put your wet towel straight back in your backpack? A quick-dry towel dries quickly and this is super handy when it comes to packing. Flip-flops Traveling with flip-flops isn’t just great when you’re heading to a sunny destination. If you’re like me, you might not be a fan of wet floors in shared bathrooms. Having flip-flops is going to be very handy when it comes to walking on a wet floor in a busy bathroom. I always travel with flip-flops… because I’m picky. Ha! (And I also like to travel where the sun shines.) Toiletries bag Having all your toiletries in a bag is very helpful. Again, when all your stuff is thrown in a backpack, it is quite hard to find everything you need. Having a toiletries bag is very handy especially in small bathrooms found in hostels. When there’s only one hook to put your clothes and your stuff, it’s great if you can just hang your bah on the door. I also prefer it as all my personal products can fit in one bag. One bag in my left hand and my clothes and towel in the other hand, I’ll be ready to walk on that wet floor. Pajamas I usually don’t sleep in pajamas (this one transforms you into a unicorn, ha!), unless I’m sharing a mixed dorm. Having some extra shorts, or pajamas is a great way to feel more comfortable in a shared dorm. Then, imagine if you need to go to the toilet in the middle of the night. If you’re going to bump into people on the way there, don’t you think you will feel more comfortable if you’re wearing something more than your underwear? Laundry bag When it comes to backpacking, you will obviously have to handle dirty laundry at some point. Having a bag for dirty clothes is a great way to keep the rest of your stuff clean and tidy. You can either use a different packing cube for the dirty laundry or use a dry bag made especially for dirty/wet stuff. Card games When staying in hostels, you will meet a lot of people. A great way to break the ice is to play games. Having one card game with you should help you make new friends in hostels. Here’s a list of card games that won’t take too much room in your backpack. Playing cards Exploding kittens Secret Hitler Werewolves Cards against humanity+++5
If exploring Canada’s wildlife is on your list of things to do, no place compares to Banff National Park. Banff is a destination that has been mentioned time and time again in travel sources like National Geographic, Lonely Planet, and CNN Travel. If you’re heading to Western Canada any time soon, adding this natural wonder to your To-Do list is a no-brainer. Table of Contents Quick Facts About Banff National Park Getting to Banff National Park Best Time to Visit Banff National Park Things to Do in Banff National Park Visit Lake Louise Take a Mountainside Gondola Ride Explore Banff Town Ski to Your Heart’s Content Quick Facts About Banff National Park Established in 1885 as the country’s first national park, Banff National Park is located in the Alberta province of Western Canada. It is home to nearly 2,500 campsites, has been established as a world heritage site, and attracts over 4 million visitors each year. With over 1,600 kilometers of hiking trails in the park and mountain ranges for days, filling time with outdoor activities is easy while in Banff. You might even catch a glimpse of the endangered woodland Caribou that has made its home in the park. Getting to Banff National Park Getting to the park is pretty straightforward. The closest airport is in Calgary, so most travelers fly into the international airport. Calgary serves both domestic and international travelers, and it’s only about 80 miles east of Banff. From the airport, the next step would be to either rent a car or take a bus. For complete control of your itinerary, the better option is to rent a car. Drive along the Trans-Canada 1 highway straight into the park, stopping along the way for good food and breathtaking mountain views. Taking the bus or a shuttle van is easy, but it doesn’t offer the same level of convenience and freedom. banff national park Best Time to Visit Banff National Park Banff National Park is open all year long, but the time you choose to visit depends on how you plan to spend your time. If you’re a fan of hiking, mountain biking, and rock climbing, the best time to visit Banff is in the warm summer months. For an array of colors that any photographer would be lucky to experience, plan a trip in autumn. For some, the best time to visit is without a doubt the wintertime. Winter in Banff is chilly and snowy, but this is ideal for those who want to take advantage of the best snowboarding, sledding, and backcountry skiing Canada has to offer. As the snow falls, mountain landscapes transform from lush and green to magical and snowy. Things to Do in Banff National Park Every visitor to Banff has a different idea of what the perfect getaway entails. This is partly because every individual has different preferences for outdoor activities. But the main reason is that Banff has such a wide selection of activities to choose from. Unless you plan on spending months here, fitting every activity into your itinerary is close to impossible. The trick is to pick and choose activities based on how you prefer to spend time outdoors. Are you a hiker, biker, skier, or rock climber? Do you prefer to learn about the history of an area over adrenaline-pumping activities? Or do you prefer just to sit back and relax as you take it all in? No matter the answers to these questions, you’ll leave BNP feeling satisfied. Visit Lake Louise Some visitors to Banff say that Lake Louise is overrated and overhyped, but even so, it’s a must-visit Banff attraction. There’s a reason that this lake is referred to as the Jewel of Banff, and that fact is made obvious by the glittery turquoise waters surrounded by snowcapped mountain peaks. If you want to go all out with your Lake Louise experience (and budget isn’t a concern), book a room at the Fairmont Chateau. The shore of Lake Louise is within steps of the hotel’s lobby and the rooms overlook stunning, unobstructed views of the lake. Aside from staring in awe at the glassy waters, visitors to Lake Louise love to hike the surrounding area. The lake is the perfect starting point for several highly-rated Banff hikes, like Plain of Six Glaciers and the Beehives. Hiking the Beehives is pretty challenging, but it is well worth the sweat and heavy breathing. At the top, hikers are rewarded with an amazing view of another famous Banff body of water, Lake Agnes. lake louise banff Take a Mountainside Gondola Ride If your ideal method for taking in views doesn’t include strapping on a pair of hiking boots, the best way to see the sights of Banff is through a mountain gondola ride. There are several gondolas to choose from, but the best is the Banff Sightseeing Gondola. This makes its way up Sulphur Mountain, offering 360-degree views of the national park. At the top of Sulphur Mountain is where the real fun begins. Once the gondola has reached an altitude of 7,500 feet, passengers are left on their own to explore the mountain top restaurants, cafes, and shops of Sulphur Mountain. banff gondola Explore Banff Town The town of Banff is located at the south end of the national park. Although it’s the main tourist destination of Alberta, it is still a small sleepy town that is surrounded by the Canadian Rockies. To avoid the crowded tourism season, the best time to visit is in the winter months. Even in the dead of winter, the town’s atmosphere is still lively since this is the ideal time to hit the slopes. Ski to Your Heart’s Content Speaking of hitting the slopes, there’s no better way to fully experience Banff than to cruise down the mountain ranges with a ski strapped to each foot. There are loads of Banff ski trips to choose from, but there are a few Banff ski resorts that stand above the rest, like Sunshine Village, Mount Norquay, and Lake Louise Ski Resort.+++5
After over twelve years of traveling around the world we've learned a few things about travel gear – what works well and what really doesn't and gets left behind. To help you choose the best travel gifts (you know, the ones that will actually get used), we've put together some of our favorite and most practical travel gear in this Ultimate Traveler Gift Guide. If you're looking to buy travel gifts for an outdoor, adventurous, green or curious traveler in your life (or perhaps you are gearing up yourself), look no further. Our goal with these travel gift recommendations is to equip you to travel well, as well as with organization and flexibility. Note: Some of these links are affiliate links. Some are not. If you click through on an affiliate link, we'll get a commission at no extra cost to you. Thanks for supporting us in sharing stories from around the world! Update: This post was originally published on November 30, 2016 and updated on November 10, 2019. The Ultimate Traveler Gift Guide Travel Gifts for Outdoor Adventurers These gift ideas are for the outdoor adventurer who enjoys immersing him or herself into nature with long hikes or treks, but wants to be comfortable and have versatile gear. We've been using the items recommended below for years and have taken them on some pretty serious hikes and multi-day treks. 1 Pick-Pocket Proof® Adventure Travel Pants Pick-Pocket Proof® Adventure Travel Pants We've been wearing Clothing Arts travel pants for over seven years on different hikes and multi-day treks. We've really put them to the test -- Camino de Santiago in Spain (960km/600 miles), Peaks of the Balkans trek (200km), gorilla trekking in Uganda, Jyrgalan trek in Kyrgyzstan, and many more outdoor adventures. And, they still are in good shape even after all of this use. We really like all the pockets and zippers available that keep our valuables (e.g., smartphone, wallet, passport, keys) safe and secure whether we're on a mountain trail or a city street. Click below for the men's version and here for the Women's Clothing Arts Travel Pants. Buy now 2 Women's Hiking Backpack: Deuter ACT Trail Pro 32 SL Backpack Women's Hiking Backpack: Deuter ACT Trail Pro 32 SL Backpack Photo Credit: www.amazon.com We upgraded our trekking backpacks to walk the Camino de Santiago (960 km/600 miles). In preparation, we researched extensively and tested several backpacks at outdoor stores. For me, I choose a Deuter backpack specifically made for women and it exceeded my expectations for being light, functional and comfortable. If you're planning a long trek or walk, take a good look at this pack (as well as the recommended one for men). They are that good. Buy now 3 Men's Hiking Backpack: Osprey Packs Exos 38 Backpack Men's Hiking Backpack: Osprey Packs Exos 38 Backpack Photo Credit: www.amazon.com This backpack comes in several sizes and the Large Osprey Packs Exos 38 Backpack is well-suited for tall people. Light, comfortable, and durable. I'm able to wear this backpack all day and not feel pain in my shoulders or back. Buy now 4 Dry Sack Dry Sack Photo Credit: www.amazon.com Whether you plan to go out kayaking, traveling by zodiac boat in Antarctica, or hiking during unpredictable weather, the peace of mind that a dry sack brings is well worth the additional weight and bulk. We often use a big dry sack for our DSLR camera and lenses, while a small one is useful for keeping smartphones and other valuables dry and secure. Buy now 5 Smartwool Hiking Socks Smartwool Hiking Socks Photo Credit: www.amazon.com I've tried all different kind of hiking socks, including some inexpensive knock-offs, and Smartwool hiking socks are by far my favorite. I give a lot of credit to these socks for the fact that I did not get any blisters when walking six hundred miles along the Camino de Santiago. They not only provide good support and cushion, but the wool blend keeps you warm when it's cold and also is somehow rather light and breathable when it's warm. They may seem like expensive socks at first, but they are worth it as they will last years even with extensive use and wear and tear. Buy now 6 Leatherman Sidekick Multitool Leatherman Sidekick Multitool Photo Credit: www.amazon.com With a set of pliers, several knives, multiple types of screwdrivers and a bottle opener, our Leatherman Multitool has gotten us out of many situations -- e.g., fixing windshield wipers and lights on a car in the middle of the night in Kyrgyzstan. It is also essential for picnics and make-shift eating on the road (you know, when you have a ripe avocado on a bus in Uganda that you want to eat). Pair this with a spork or camping silverware and you'll really be all set for picnics. Note: Be sure not to leave this in your carry-on bag if you are flying. We've learned this lesson the hard way. Buy now 7 Collapsible Walking Sticks Collapsible Walking Sticks Photo Credit: www.amazon.com Highly recommended on most treks, especially for downhill sections. We've now started taking this set of travel-friendly collapsible walking sticks on most trips we take that include a hike. On the times we've forgotten to pack them we've missed them. This pair is light, easy to pack, and quick to put together when you're on the trail. Buy now 8 Gift Certificates Gift Certificates Photo Credit: www.rei.com If you're not sure what to get the adventure traveler in your life, a gift certificate for REI or Amazon is a great idea. This will allow freedom to choose what he or she needs for the next adventure...whether it's going to the top of Mount Kilimanjaro or going on safari in Botswana. Continue Reading Sustainable Travel Gifts for Eco-Conscious and Green Travelers Here are a few practical gift and gear ideas for eco-conscious and sustainable travelers who want to reduce their environmental footprint when they travel. Many of these gifts speak to trying to eliminate single-use plastic and other waste as much as possible. 9 Refillable Water Bottle Refillable Water Bottle We highly recommend traveling with a refillable water bottle to reduce plastic bottle waste when you travel, whether you're headed into the mountains or walking across cities. I like this style of water bottle as I can attach it easily to a pack or strap with a carabiner (we recommend a carabiner with a simple lock) to secure it. Once you start using a refillable water bottle it becomes second nature to always have one with you. You can also use the the Tap app to find water refill stations around the world. Buy now 10 Refillable Water Bottle with Purifying Filter Refillable Water Bottle with Purifying Filter Photo Credit: www.amazon.com If you are going to be traveling to a place that doesn't have easy access to filtered and drinkable water then consider getting this Grayl Ultralight water bottle that has a filter built right into it so that it automatically purifies and cleans the water. Buy now 11 SteriPen Ultraviolet Water Purifier SteriPen Ultraviolet Water Purifier Photo Credit: www.amazon.com For trips to remote areas without easy access to clean water, consider pairing this with a SteriPen to clean water using ultraviolet technology. Continue Reading 12 Bamboo Reusable Coffee Cup Bamboo Reusable Coffee Cup Photo Credit: www.amazon.com These reusable coffee cups are made from bamboo and are colorful, light and easy to carry with you. Not to mention, you won't have to worry about a disposable paper coffee cup leaking on you again. Some cafes even offer a discount these days if you bring your own coffee cup with you. Buy now 13 Reusable Travel Silverware Reusable Travel Silverware Photo Credit: www.amazon.com This is a new addition to our standard travel gear as we try to reduce the amount of plastic utensils we use when we travel (or at home). We like this bamboo kit one because it is super light to carry and has a plastic case. We found that the case comes in quite handy for when you have take-out sushi and you want a container to mix your wasabi with soy sauce. Add a reusable straw to make your kit complete! Buy now 14 Refillable Shampoo and Toiletry Travel Bottles Refillable Shampoo and Toiletry Travel Bottles Photo Credit: www.amazon.com Skip the small plastic toiletry bottles at hotels and bring your own favorite shampoos, creams and other toiletries in these nifty refillable travel bottles. Your hair and skin will be thankful, and it will avoid all that plastic bottle waste. They are TSA-approved, meaning that you can take them on board with you in your carry on luggage anywhere in the world. Buy now 15 Tote Bags with Unique Art Tote Bags with Unique Art Photo Credit: shop.legalnomads.com Avoid using plastic bags at the grocery store and look stylish with these Legal Nomads Food Map Tote Bags. Perfect for your friends who are environmentally conscious and big foodie travelers. You can take your pick of food maps from Italy, Mexico, Japan, Portugal, Vietnam or Thailand. These bags are sturdy and strong so you can also use them to carry things if you run out of space in your luggage. Buy now 16 Give the Gift of Trees Give the Gift of Trees Photo Credit: www.trilliontreecampaign.org Think about gifting a group of trees to be planted instead of buying new items. Planting trees and reforestation efforts are proven to help reduce carbon in our environment, as well as a host of other benefits like preventing desertification, mud slides, cleaner air, and much more. With the Trillion Tree Campaign by Plant for the Planet organization you can select where in the world you'd like trees to be planted, from Ethiopia to Ireland, and how many you'd like to plant. There is also information on the survival rate of trees in that area and the local organization doing the planting. The price per tree varies based on the location. In the near future you should be able to see a satellite map of where the trees you purchased have been planted. We've been buying trees this via the cool app as an informal offset for our flights. Find us on the app at Uncornered Market and add to the forest! Continue Reading Practical Travel Gifts and Luggage Here's the gear that we've been using for years and years. In fact, some of these items have been with us for over ten years and we're still using them on every trip. They are that useful. 17 Eagle Creek Gear Warrior Wheeled Luggage Eagle Creek Gear Warrior Wheeled Luggage Photo Credit: www.amazon.com Although we still have backpacks, we find ourselves using our wheeled luggage more frequently these days. These Eagle Creek bags are sturdy (the wheels even survive our cobblestoned street in Berlin), have strong zippers, fit in a ton (perhaps too much) stuff, and look good. Dan uses the 34-inch bag while I use the 26-inch. There is also a carry-on version at 20-inches that I am currently eying. These aren't the cheapest of bags, but they do last. We've put them through a lot of wear and tear and they are still in good shape. Buy now 18 ECBC Lance Executive Daypack (28 L) ECBC Lance Executive Daypack (28 L) Photo Credit: www.amazon.com We are always looking for laptop bags that are comfortable enough to be used as a daypack. One of the things we liked about this Lance Executive Daypack is that the structure and organization of it allows you to pack in a lot of stuff -- including a laptop and all its accessories -- into a pretty small-sized bag. It's compact and often meets the "personal item" requirements for airlines. Additionally, it has a wide waist strap to make it more comfortable for long urban walks. If you're traveling by air, the laptop compartment can unzip to go flat on the x-ray conveyer belt so that you don't have to take your laptop out separately (TSA approved). Disclosure: This was provided to us for testing and we're still using it 3 years later. Buy now 19 Packing Cubes Packing Cubes Photo Credit: www.amazon.com These Eagle Creek packing cubes help keep us sane and organized on the road. We use different packing cubes of different colors for specific items -- one for underwear and socks, another for clothing, while another holds all of our technical gear. This means we always know where exactly to go in our bag to find exactly what we need. Whenever people ask for packing advice, packing cubes are always at the top of the list. Buy now 20 Macks Silicone Earplugs Macks Silicone Earplugs Photo Credit: www.amazon.com Although earplugs might not be the sexiest gift to give someone, we've long been advocates for earplugs as a good night's sleep on the road is golden, like a gift. Recently, we switched to these silicone earplugs for the Camino de Santiago and have never looked back. Whether you are sleeping in a crowded albergue or in a hotel on a loud city street, these silicone earplugs can create quiet in the midst of a snoring dormitory or urban noise storm. A good night's sleep is so worth the expenses and effort of carrying earplugs. Continue Reading 21 Portable Clothes Washing Machine Portable Clothes Washing Machine Photo Credit: www.amazon.com This is a new addition to our packing gear. Laundry is a reality of travel, and often we don't have access to laundromats or laundry service. So, we find ourselves using the bathroom sink or shower to wash the essentials. This Scrubba Wash Bag Mini makes that whole process a bit easier, thorough and more efficient. It also uses less water. So, if you know someone who often finds themselves washing socks out in the kitchen sink or in a stream when trekking, this is the gift for him or her. Disclosure: This was provided to us for testing. Continue Reading 22 Kindle Paperwhite Kindle Paperwhite Photo Credit: www.amazon.com A few years ago Dan and I both purchased Kindle Paperwhites and we love them. I wish I had been smart enough to get it earlier. Not only is it super light and compact (it fits perfectly in my small purse I carry everywhere), but the battery power lasts forever. The readability is great, and because it uses front light (vs back light) and it doesn't use blue light, it won't tire your eyes or keep you up at night like many other devices. Also recommended is one of these snazzy covers to protect the screen. Buy now 23 Gluten-Free Translation Cards Gluten-Free Translation Cards Photo Credit: www.legalnomads.com These gluten-free cards developed by our friend, Jodi Ettenberg, are the perfect gift for friends or family who have celiac disease or a gluten allergy. As an avid traveler and foodie with celiac disease, she knows firsthand how challenging it can be to communicate "gluten free" in different languages in a way that restaurants truly understand. Her gluten free restaurant cards currently cover a variety of countries, from Italy to Mexico to Japan. You can find the full collection here. Continue Reading Travel Gifts of Tours and Experiences Although we've shared lots of recommended gear and stuff to give to travelers above, often the best gift you can give someone is that of an experience. Studies show that experiences provide more satisfaction and happiness than stuff. Here are a few of the tours and travel service providers we recommend and use ourselves. 24 G Adventures Small Group Tours G Adventures Small Group Tours Photo Credit: www.gadventures.com Know someone who is interesting on traveling somewhere, but doesn't want to go alone or would prefer to go with a small group and expert guide? Then consider gifting them a G Adventures tour to where they are dreaming of visiting. We've been on over fourteen different G Adventures tours over the years, from unusual destinations like Iran and Ethiopia to the more traditional Australia and Japan. We recommend G Adventures tours because their local guides are great, there's a variety of tour styles (from backpacking to more luxury), and there is always independent time in the schedule so you have flexibility for optional activities or to explore on your own. G Adventure tours always use local accommodation providers and restaurants so as to keep as much money local. In addition, their Planeterra Foundation uses a social enterprise model with tourism to sustainably support local NGOs, organizations and marginalized communities around the world. Book this tour 25 Context Walking Tours Context Walking Tours Photo Credit: www.contexttravel.com Context Travel offers walking tours that are more like walking seminars. The groups are intimate with a maximum of six people and are led by a docent, usually a PhD or expert in a field relevant to the destination. We've taken several Context tours in different cities -- Cartagena, Colombia and in Berlin, a city we thought we knew well but realized on the tours how much more we had to learn. Additionally, we worked with Context to develop a Deep Travel tour in Berlin called Cooking Across Borders. Contextual storytelling makes a difference in the world of travel experience by deepening and changing our relationship with the places we visit. If you use this link you'll get 10% off any Context tours. Book this tour 26 Give the Gift of Travel with FLYTE Give the Gift of Travel with FLYTE Photo Credit: takeflyte.org We've seen firsthand the life-changing power of travel, especially for young people. So if you're wondering what to get the traveler who cares and has it all already, give the gift of travel to disadvantaged youth in the United States. The reality is that there are a lot of youth who don’t have access to international travel opportunities and this is something that FLYTE, an NGO started by Nomadic Matt is working to change. Each year they sponsor international education trips for American high school students in disadvantaged communities. Already they have sent more than 50 students on four transformative trips to Mexico, Cuba, Ecuador, and Guatemala. Each one of them returns with their own unique story about how their journey changed their life. This year were able to send another group of students by sending Envision Academy to Colombia! And, this is only the beginning. So, consider giving the gift of travel on behalf of the traveler in your life by contributing to FLYTE. This contribution will help sponsor a group of students on their first international trip and changing how they see themselves, the world, and their place in the world. Donate now and get involved!+++5
Thinking of traveling to Sri Lanka, but not sure of where to start? Which places to visit, things to do or how to plan your trip? And how can you best avoid the crowds? We’ll answer all those questions and more in this Sri Lanka Experiential Travel Guide and two-week itinerary. From meeting people on trains, sharing sunrise with pilgrims and travelers alike at the top of Adam’s Peak, wandering through the tea gardens, learning to pop spices and cook Sri Lankan food in clay pots, admiring sleeping Buddha sculptures in caves, and much more, here is a taste of the diversity of experiences and destinations you'll find traveling through Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka Travel Guide Sunrise at the top of Adam's Peak, a sacred place for Buddhists, Hindus, Muslims and Christians. Sri Lanka. Ceylon. The little tear-shaped island just south of India. Our visit there wasn't my first. I lived there for 18 months when my father worked at the U.S. Embassy. My memories of Sri Lanka from my six to seven year-old self consisted of brightly colored saffron robes worn by Buddhist monks, baby orphan elephants bathing in the river, giant sleeping gilded Buddhas, and a vibrant green as far as I could see across the rolling hills of tea plantations in the north. Sri Lanka Elephant Orphanage Six-year old me with orphan elephants when we lived in Sri Lanka. Something I appreciate now as an adult, yet didn’t fully understand as a child except to note differences in people’s clothing, was the diversity of ethnicities, cultures and religions in Sri Lanka. This includes a majority Sinhalese population who are predominately Buddhist, a Tamil community composed of both Sri Lankan and Indian Tamils who are mostly Hindu, and also Christians and Muslims. Add to this a long and complicated history dating back 8,000+ years — including power struggles between kingdoms, colonialism, and forced migration — and you have the blend that makes Sri Lanka the fascinating and complex place that it is, the same blend which helped divide it and drive it into a devastating 26-year civil war (1983-2009). My family left before the civil war began. As the war unfolded, we watched as Sri Lankan friends emigrated to avoid the conflict. And just as peace and stability returned over the last decade, we watched as many of them returned home. Dan and I came close to visiting Sri Lanka in 2008 when we were in southern India. It was a time just before the end of the civil war. At the counsel of Sri Lankan friends, we decided to wait. When the war finally ended in May 2009, we looked for an opportunity to visit. One finally presented itself years later. Spurred by an opening in a Vipassana meditation course at a center in Sri Lanka, we booked a last-minute flight to Colombo. As I sat my meditation course, Dan made his way south to a beach for his own self-made retreat. After the meditation course finished, we embarked on a two week journey around the island together. To assemble an itinerary we collected recommendations from friends who had lived or visited there recently, piecing together a rough route focused on train journeys, tea gardens and treks. We left things flexible, often booking accommodation the day before or the day of, to allow shifts and adjustments as we wished. In the end, it turned out to be an even better two-week trip than we'd imagined, flush with a diversity of experiences and destinations which belied the relatively short amount of time we had. Despite the ground we'd covered and all that we'd experienced, we never felt rushed. Trains, tea gardens and treks. Here are the best experiences from our Sri Lanka travels and two-week itinerary. How to use this experiential travel guide to Sri Lanka: The following experiences are in chronological order from our trip. If you have around two weeks, you can conservatively accomplish something similar and fit in trains, treks, tea plantations and more. With three to four weeks you can add in more beach time, a meditation course, a visit to the eastern side of the island, or a few more hill towns along the way. We include suggestions of train journeys, enjoyable treks and notable hotels in Sri Lanka to help round out your itinerary. The aim: you have all the inspiration and practical travel information to create your own Sri Lanka itinerary and trip. Update: This post was first published in April 2019 and was updated and republished with more details and options for day trips on 28 December, 2019. Table of Contents Our Sri Lanka 2-Week Itinerary: A Map Sri Lanka Travel Guide: 19 Things to Do and Places to Visit What to do in and near Kandy: 3 days What to do in Hatton and Adam's Peak: 2 days What to do near Haputale + Tea Plantations: 3 days What to do in Ella and Nearby: 3 days What to do and eat in Colombo: 1-2 Days Recommendations for a 3rd Week in Sri Lanka Essential Sri Lanka Travel Information Day Trips and Other Tours in Sri Lanka Best time to visit Sri Lanka How to Get a Sri Lanka Visa Flights to Sri Lanka How to Book Train Tickets in Sri Lanka Finding and Booking Hotels in Sri Lanka Buying a SIM card in Sri Lanka Our Sri Lanka 2-Week Itinerary: A Map Our two week journey together through Sri Lanka included: Sri Lanka 2-Week Itinerary Map You can view the interactive Google My Map here. Colombo – Kandy (train): 2 days Kandy – Dambulla Caves – Sigiriya – Kandy (bus): 2 days Kandy – Hatton (train) + rickshaw to Delhousie – Adam's Peak – Hatton: 2 days Hatton – Haputale (train) + rickshaw to Lipton's Seat: 3 days Haputale – Ella (train): 3 days Ella – Colombo (train): 2 days Note: Dan's beach segment took him from Colombo by train to Galle and then a bus onto the southern beaches between Godellawela and Goyambokka. The days for each itinerary segment listed above and below include travel times between destinations. Moving between destinations can often take most to all of a day when you take into consideration time on the train (or bus) and rickshaw transfers needed. However, these journeys are also experiences in and of themselves to meet locals and enjoy the changing landscapes and lush tea plantations. Sri Lanka Travel Guide: 19 Things to Do and Places to Visit 1. Take the train in Sri Lanka – again and again and again Traveling by train in Sri Lanka, no matter which class carriage, is the best way to get around the country for views, hanging with locals, and budget minding. It’s more than just a transportation option to get you from point A to B; it's an experience. We traveled in every class, from third class to 1st class A/C (air-conditioned), and highly recommend trying it all if you can. Sri Lanka Travel by Train Train travel in Sri Lanka: the best way around the island. Sri Lankan trains don’t go everywhere, but they reach close to most places in Sri Lanka that you’d want to visit. Additionally, many train routes take you through gorgeous scenery and landscapes — tea gardens, forests, villages, coasts — often where there are no roads. The fresh air and meditative slow movement and sound of the train is so much more enjoyable than diesel-filled roads and the jerky movements of bus transport. We traveled by train from: Colombo – Kandy – Hatton – Haputale – Ella – Colombo. Sri Lanka Travel Guide, Hill Country Tea Plantations Views from the train in Sri Lanka's hill country. No matter which train journey you choose, you won’t be disappointed. Although the train route to Ella gets most of the press and hype, we actually felt that the segment from Hatton to Haputale was the most spectacular. Given the popularity of train travel with locals and travelers it can be challenging to secure tickets for reserved seats. Read below for advice on buying tickets and traveling by train in Sri Lanka without a reservation. What to do in and near Kandy: 3 days 2. Admire the murals and gilded Buddha statues at Dambulla Cave Temple We can develop “temple fatigue” quickly. As such, and based on our research, we arrived at Dambulla Cave Temple with managed expectations. But as it was only a couple hours north (72km) of Kandy and en route to Sigiriya Rock Fortress, we opted to stop off and check it out. We’re so glad we did. Sri Lanka Travel Guide, Dambulla Cave Temple Buddha statues at the Dambulla Cave Temple. These Buddhist cave temples, also a UNESCO site, date back to around 1st century BC. The complex includes five caves open to the public, each a bit different from the next in terms of its size, and its style and range of paintings and Buddha statues. Of course, the paintings and statues have been renovated and brushed up over time. However, it’s still impressive to take in Buddhist religious art spanning 22 centuries and to witness the living history of how local people still use these caves today for religious purposes. Sri Lanka Travel Guide, Dambulla Cave Temple Sleeping Buddha, Dambulla Cave Temple. This is a popular site for both Sri Lankans and travelers, so if you find that one cave is crowded, just move to the next one until the crowds dissipate and move on. It’s worth the additional effort to be able to enjoy each of the caves with some quiet and stillness. How to visit the Dambulla Cave Temple: Buses leave Kandy bus station (just next to the train station) for Dambulla throughout the day. The journey is about 90 minutes each way. Ask the bus attendant or driver to drop you off at the Cave Temple entrance so that you don’t have to double-back from Dambulla town a few kilometers away. We opted to spend an extra dollar or two to catch an air-conditioned bus from Kandy bus station. It’s not the easiest to find so just ask one of the men at the information desk. They'll point you in the right direction. If you have a backpack or luggage with you, ask to leave your bags at the Police/Security checkpoint on the way up to the temple. There aren't many food options around the entrance to temple, so consider bringing some snacks or taking a tuk-tuk into Dambulla town for lunch. When we visited there was no entrance fee. We'd read previously to expect an entrance fee, so we’re not sure if we just got lucky the day we visited. 3. Climb to the top of Sigiriya (Lion Rock) Citadel before the crowds arrive The story goes that in the 5th century King Kasyapa needed to build a new, secure capital after usurping the throne. He brutally murdered his father and scared off his brother, the rightful heir to the throne. After this Game of Thrones-style move, he headed just north of Dambulla and built his palace atop a massive 180-meter high rock – Sigiriya, or Lion Rock – giving him a vantage point from which to see any armies coming from miles away. His palace served him well and protected him during his reign. After he died, it was used as a Buddhist monastery until the 14th century. Sri Lanka Travel Guide, Sigiriya Sigiriya Palace, views from the top. Most travelers visit Sigiriya, another UNESCO site and one of the most visited places in Sri Lanka, as a day trip from Kandy. Our advice is to spend the night in one of the family-run guest houses close to the site and take a tuk-tuk early in the morning so you arrive at 7AM when the ticket office and gates open. This will allow you to walk through the gardens, enjoy the frescoes — including the famous Sigiriya Maidens — in the caves along the rock face (cool, but you can’t touch!), climb to the top of the rock, walk around the palace ruins, enjoy the views from up high, and head back down. And to do all this before the hordes of tourists on bus tours from Kandy arrive. On our way down from the top of the rock, we saw hundreds of visitors lining up. Sri Lanka Travel Guide, Sigiriya Walking up to Sigiriya in the early morning mist. Another benefit to this approach is that you’ll be able to explore Sigiriya in the early morning coolness before the day warms up and views become hazy. A note on entrance fees and an alternative to Sigiriya: The entrance fee for foreigners to visit Sigiriya is a rather hefty $30/person. We made the decision to visit anyway, but if you are on a strict travel budget consider skipping Sigiriya and climbing nearby Pidurangala Rock for a view of Sigiriya and the surrounding landscapes. Where to stay to visit Sigirya early in the day: We stayed at Gagadiya Rest just a few kilometers from the entrance to Sigiriya. This is a small family-run guesthouse with just two rooms – very clean and new. They were in the process of building a second floor and additional rooms when we stayed, so they probably have more rooms now. We received a free tuk-tuk ride from the guesthouse in the early morning out to Sigiriya and then ate breakfast there when we returned, before heading back to Kandy that day. It’s also possible to get a great home-cooked dinner there, but ask about the price as it tends to be a bit higher than in other accommodation, perhaps because there’s not much around and you are a captive audience. You can also search for other hotels and guesthouses in Sigiriya. NOTE: If you are short on time you can also book a day trip to Sigiriya and the Dambulla Caves from Colombo. 4. Eat your weight in Sri Lankan rice and curry. The basic Sri Lankan meal, whether at a hole-in-the-wall or high-end restaurant, is rice and curry. Often, you’ll get a big plate or bowl of rice and then a selection of several different curries to go with it. In many simple cafeteria-style places the curries will be laid out buffet-style and you’ll point the server to which ones you want. It’s best to eat during local meal hours so that the food is freshly cooked and not sitting out for hours in the heat. Sri Lanka Food, Rice and Curries Rice and curries, a typical Sri Lankan lunch at a local restaurant. Vegetarians should rejoice at Sri Lankan food. There are usually several types of daal (lentils), sabjis (mixed vegetables), beet root, eggplant and other vegetarian curry options on offer. For meat eaters, you’ll find different types of chicken, meat or fish curry options with various levels of heat and spice. In more formal restaurants you’ll have the option to choose how many curries — and which ones — you want served with your pile of rice. Sri Lankan Food in Ella Delicious meal at Matey Hut in Ella with a choice of four curries. Don’t forget to seek out or ask for the different types of sambols (salads), chutneys or hot sauces available. Some of our favorites included pennywort salad (gotukola sambol), spicy coconut chutney (pol sambola), and spicy onion sambol (lunu miris). When you do, you’ll often get a nod of approval and smile from your waiter as well. For more information on Sri Lankan food, check out this article from our friend Mark. 5. Pay a visit to the Temple of the Sacred Tooth Relic in Kandy. Inside the former royal palace complex in Kandy, Sri Dalada Maligawa (aka, Temple of the Sacred Tooth Relic) is what is believed to be the relic of the tooth of Gautama Buddha, rescued from his funeral pyre in 543 BC. Almost 800 years later, the story continues with the tooth having been smuggled to Sri Lanka from India in the early 4th century. In addition to its religious value, the relic of the tooth introduces another Game of Thrones-like twist: it is believed that whoever holds the relic also rules the country. So it became a prized possession and political tool of monarchs over the centuries. Its final resting place is now in Kandy where it is said to be secure inside the palace's main shrine. Sri Lanka Travel, Temple of the Tooth in Kandy One of the many elaborately decorated hallways in the Temple of the Relic of the Tooth. Although it's not possible for visitors today to see the actual tooth relic, it is still worth visiting the palace and temple if you are in Kandy. The procession of pilgrims, devotees and rituals surrounding this sacred relic offer a bit of active devotion, of living history. You'll notice lotus blossoms and frangipani offerings heaped throughout the different temples, tucked into sacred nooks. The palace and temples grounds — with their elaborate wood carvings, gilded statues and paintings, and manicured gardens — serve up a bit of visual overload. Sri Lanka Travel Guide, Kandy Temple of the Relic of the Tooth Flower offerings at the Temple of the Relic of the Tooth. Kandy, Sri Lanka. Note: If you happen to visit Kandy during July or August ask about the dates for that year's Esala Perahera (Festival of the Tooth), a two week interlude when the town fills with decorated elephants, dancers, ceremonies, and more. 6. Buy some creative, colorful and eco-friendly souvenirs in Kandy. We weren’t looking for souvenirs or to buy anything when we stumbled upon EarthBound Creations (28 Yatinuwara Veediya, Kandy) as we wandered the streets of Kandy. However, the colorfully creative use of recycled materials (recycled newsprint, plastics, etc.) changed that. In addition to the environmentally sensitive use of recycled materials, this social enterprise also works with women who were affected by or displaced by the tsunami in 2004. Sri Lanka Travel, Kandy Social Enterprise Souvenir Shop Our recycled Sri Lankan newspaper souvenirs from EarthBound Creations in Kandy. This means when you buy cool souvenirs and gifts here — we bought a basket and an old bi-plane made, both made of recycled cardboard and newsprint — it helps provide income and training to this disadvantaged group of women. Inventory there is cool, visually appealing, reasonably priced and feel-good. What to do in Hatton and Adam's Peak: 2 days 7. Wake up at 2AM to climb Adam’s Peak (Sri Padaya) and enjoy sunrise at the top This mountain is considered sacred by several religions, including all the prominent ones practiced in Sri Lanka. Sri Pada (“Sacred Footprint”), a rock formation near the peak, is considered to be the footprint of Buddha for Buddhists, of Adam for Christians and Muslims, and of Shiva for Hindus. During your walk up, you’ll find plenty of local pilgrims of different religions and travelers along the way. You'll find even more gathered in large numbers at the top near the temples waiting for the sun to rise. Sri Lanka Travel Guide, Adam's Peak Sunrise Sunrise at Adam's Peak. The idea is to hike up Adam's Peak in the dark so you can enjoy sunrise at the top, followed by views from the mountain in the early morning light on the way down. We set our alarms for the ungodly hour of 2AM, bundled up in multiple layers of clothing against the morning chill, got a tuk-tuk ride to the base of the mountain, and set off for the peak (2,243 m / 7,359 ft). Although we enjoyed the anticipation of sunrise next to the Hindu and Buddhist temples at the peak while we watched them perform different ceremonies and prayers, we found the crowds and all of the cameras and selfie-sticks a bit much after a while. We headed down before the sun was fully up and left the crowds behind us. This was such a good decision. Sri Lanka Travel, Adam's Peak at Sunrise Early morning light on our way down from Adam's Peak. We had views of the nearby mountains and hills almost all to ourselves in a perfect early-morning light which lasts only a few minutes at best. It’s magical. How long does it take to climb Adam’s Peak? It’s not a technically difficult climb, but it’s a pretty challenging walk up with long stretches of steep steps (estimated between 5,000 and 6,000 stairs). We were advised that it took about 3-3.5 hours to get to the top, but we found ourselves in in the final stretch after around 2.5 hours with another hour to wait before sunrise. So we escaped the cold at a conveniently-placed tea house before the final set of stairs and enjoyed cups of steaming milk tea. It takes around 1-2 hours to return down. The steep descent can be tough on the knees, muscles and other joints. Bring a knee and/or ankle brace if you have any issues. Even better, bring a walking stick or two. Best time of year to climb Adam’s Peak: Pilgrimage season at Adam’s Peak runs from December to May, coinciding with the best weather in the region. At other times of year you might encounter rain or get fogged-in views at the top. If you can manage it with your schedule, try to avoid the weekends as we heard the crowds swell even more with local pilgrims. How to get to Adam’s Peak: Take the train to Hatton station and then a local bus (usually waits outside the train station) or rickshaw (about 1,000-1,500 rupees) to Delhousie. Where to stay to climb Adam’s Peak: We recommend staying in Delhousie, the village built up near the entrance to the Adam’s Peak trail. We'd hoped to stay at Hugging Clouds, but by the time we got around to booking it was sold out so we stayed about 3-5 km away. Although our accommodation offered a free tuk-tuk transfer at 2:30AM, being that far away from the entrance was still a bit of an annoyance. And on our way back we had to search for and negotiate another tuk-tuk. You can search for other hotels and guesthouses near Adam’s Peak. 8. Rickshaw ride the hill country and tea plantations Sometimes it’s worth the splurge of a few dollars to take your own rickshaw rather than the public bus. It's definitely a wise idea when you’re in the middle of hill country surrounded by tea plantations and you wish to take it all in a bit more slowly and to take photos along the way. Sri Lanka Travel Guide, Hill Country and Tea Plantations Tea plantations and green for as far as the eye can see. The two routes we recommend for taking your own rickshaw: from Delhousie to Hatton (or the opposite direction) and from Haputale to Dambethenna Tea Estate (also the starting point for the hike to Lipton’s Seat). Don’t be afraid to ask your driver to stop for photo opportunities and just to enjoy the views. We found that our drivers snapped photos of the tea plantations and views with their mobile phones, just like us. 9. Take a break from Sri Lankan rice with some roti (flat bread) Although the standard Sri Lankan fare of rice and curry is tasty, you may find yourself reaching a point of rice fatigue. That’s where roti (fried flat bread) or kottu roti (diced roti which is mixed with vegetables like a fried rice) come to the rescue. Sri Lanka Food, Roti and Curry Excited for a big stack of roti with curry (instead of rice). If you still have a hankering for curries, consider switching out the rice for a stack of freshly made roti to go with your daal (lentils) and other curries. One of our favorite places for this was Malabar Restaurant and Bakers in Hatton. It was so good we ate here two days in a row as we transited through town on the way to and from Adam’s Peak. Sri Lankan Food, Kottu Roti Hearty plate of kottu roti, made from finely chopped roti. Another alternative to rice and curry is kotti roti, which essentially looks like fried rice made with vegetables and different meats, but where diced roti replaces the rice. You always know when this is being made as you can hear the kottu roti master clanging away with his knives to cut the roti super fine. The flavor is hearty and the sound satisfying. And the whole experience offers a welcome break from the rice and curry routine. What to do near Haputale + Tea Plantations: 3 days 10. Find a room with a view in a hill station Although Nuwara Eliya and Ella might be the more popular and sophisticated hill stations in Sri Lanka’s tea country, we decided to try less-visited Haputale for a couple of days based on the recommendation of friends who lived in Sri Lanka for several years. Most of the guest houses and inns in this area are in the countryside outside of town, but we got lucky with this room and view in town. Sri Lanka Travel Guide, Haputale Tea Plantations Balcony view over the tea plantations in Haputale. To be honest, there’s not a lot going on in the town of Haputale and not many tourist services. But, it’s a good base if you want to visit nearby tea plantations, go on some hikes in the area (e.g., Lipton’s Seat), witness local life, and just chill with a nice view for a few days. Where to stay in Haputale: We stayed at ABC Guest House, but not all rooms have balconies and this view. Get in touch to confirm that you’ll be put in one of the upstairs rooms with a balcony. Otherwise, consider staying somewhere else in the area…and ask about a view. 11. Hike up to Lipton’s Seat and have a cup of tea Mr. Lipton of Lipton Tea really did exist. He’s not just a marketing persona. He is credited with transforming Sri Lanka into a one of the world’s biggest tea producers after a disease wiped out much of the country's coffee bushes in the late 19th century. Sri Lanka Travel, Lipton's Seat Where Lipton supposedly sat overlooking his tea plantations. Today, you can hike up through the tea plantations to the place on a hill where he used to supposedly look out over his various tea plantations to take stock and ensure everything was in order. A little make-shift hut has been set up there so you can have a cup of tea as you enjoy the views of the tea gardens below. How appropriate. Sri Lanka Travel Guide, Lipton's Seat Walking up to Lipton's Seat through the misty tea gardens. The walk takes a couple of hours along winding plantation roads and through the different segments of Dambethenna Tea Estate tea gardens to arrive at Lipton’s Seat. Depending upon the time of day and season you might also catch the tea pickers at work at they methodically make their way through the narrow rows of tea bushes and pick only their top, green leaves. How to hike to Lipton’s Seat: We took a tuk-tuk from Haputale to Dambethenna Tea Estate and walked the winding road from there. We stuck to the main road rather than trying to find short-cuts in the tea bushes. If you decide you don’t want to walk, there are plenty of rickshaws at the ready to take you all the up. If you have extra time, stop off at Dambethenna Tea Estate for tea tasting and a factory tour. Local buses leave regularly throughout the day back to Haputale. What to do in Ella and Nearby: 3 days 12. Enjoy sunset atop Little Adam’s Peak near Ella In full disclosure, we hadn’t actually planned to be on the top of Little Adam’s Peak at sunset. We decided to take the “scenic route” suggested by our guesthouse owner in Ella and as is typical for us, we got a little turned around along the way. So there we were at the golden hour hiking the last leg of what is affectionately known as Little Adam’s Peak. Turns out, in the end, that our timing was just about perfect. Sri Lanka Travel, Little Ella Peak Capturing the waning light at Little Adam's Peak. Sri Lanka Travel, Little Adam's Peak Cheesy selfie atop Little Adam's Peak. Where to stay in Ella: We opted to splurge a bit and stay at Ella Grand View on the edge of town. Rooms are new and nicely decorated, and each has its own balcony. The owner is very friendly and serves a hearty breakfast. The fastest way to get there is by walking the railroad tracks from the Ella train station. Search here for other hotels and guesthouses in Ella. 13. Take a cooking course in Ella and learn the secrets of Sri Lankan food Because Sri Lanka is so close to India one might assume that the cuisines are the same. While there are some surface similarities between the two countries' collection of cuisines, Sri Lankan food is unique and employs different spice combinations in its masalas, lots of coconut milk, ample amounts of fresh curry and pandan leaves, spicy sides called sambols, and cinnamon. Sri Lanka travel guide, cooking class in Ella Getting started at a Sri Lankan cooking class in Ella. To understand the basics of Sri Lankan food and how we could replicate some dishes at home, we took a cooking class with Lanka in Ella. Over the course of several hours we learned how to cook five different curries (carrot, beet, green bean, eggplant, and chicken), plus a sambol and salad. It was excellent. Not only did we learn the fundamentals, but Lanka was open to answering the slew of questions we had, including those related to Sri Lankan food, what life was like during the civil war, the tourism growth spurt (or overtourism) in Ella, and just about anything else. We highly recommended this experience. It's also a great value at around 2000 rupees ($12). There are other cooking courses in town, but be sure to ask how many dishes you’ll actually make since some of the other options only offer 2-3 curries for a similar price. 14. Hike Ella Rock in the morning sunshine Although we didn’t get up before dawn to climb up to Ella Rock for sunrise as many advised (yes, we do enjoy our sleep), we made it up there for mid-morning. This still allowed us to enjoy some of the morning light, coolish weather, views of Little Adam’s Peak and the hill country, before the haze settled in with the afternoon heat. Sri Lanka Travel Guide, Ella Rock Enjoying the view from the top of Ella Rock. Although Ella Rock proper gets all the limelight, we enjoyed the other overlook, one about five minutes away featuring a small Buddhist temple in a cave. There are almost no people there and it’s a good place to breathe deeply and take in the beauty around you. How to hike to Ella Rock: The hike takes about 2-3 hours from Ella. It begins by walking the railroad tracks for several kilometers. The trail then cuts in on the left side near a couple of makeshift restaurants just past Kithaella train station. Don’t worry about walking on the railroad tracks; you will hear the train coming from a long way away. Here's an overview map of the route and a full guide. Do you need a guide to hike Ella Rock? In doing our research for this hike there were all sorts of stories of people getting lost and needing to pick up a local guide to get to Ella Rock. Maybe we just got lucky with our timing, but we found that even though the trail wasn’t explicitly marked with signs, the path was clear enough to follow, especially given the other hikers along the way. NOTE: If you are short on time, consider taking this day trip around Ella that includes a hike up to Ella Peak in the morning, visit to Nine Arches Bridge and a hike up to Little Adam's Peak. What to do and eat in Colombo: 1-2 Days 15. Get your Sri Lankan street food fix at Galle Face Green in Colombo For the combination of street food, ocean views, and a great place to watch the sunset, head to Galle Face Green in late afternoon. Although much of the street food here can be a bit on the fried side, there are some tasty crab and shrimp bites that you can find at select food stalls along the walkway. Sri Lanka Travel Guide, Galle Face Green Street Food Street food stalls on Galle Face Green. For a meal with an actual seat, take your pick of one of the restaurant stalls whose menus are full of deviled and grilled seafood or chicken. It you order a beer, it's likely they'll serve the can in a bag so as to avoid their running afoul of liquor license authorities. To see more of Colombo and learn about its history, consider taking a half-day city tour to see the main sights of the city. Where to stay in Colombo: It might sound odd to stay in a capsule hotel in Sri Lanka, but the Star Anise Boutique Capsule Hotel was recommended to us by another traveler. Its novelty factor, the fact that it offers double bed capsules, and the price and convenient location to the train station made it an easy sell for us. If you are someone who likes a lot of space and privacy, this would not be the place for you. But, for a quick overnight stay in Colombo this worked out great for us. You can search for other hotels in Colombo here. 16. Find the Hopper master in the Colombo Old Fort area Hoppers is a typical Sri Lankan dish featuring a bowl-shaped pancake made from rice flour and coconut milk, often with the option of a fried egg inside, which is served with a simple curry. Almost as fun as eating hoppers is watching the masters at work on the street with their hopper pans churning out perfectly formed hoppers by the hundreds. Sri Lanka Food, Hoppers Hoppers, the Sri Lankan breakfast of champions. If you’re in Colombo look for this guy on York street in the Old Fort area. Hoppers with a smile! Sri Lanka Food, Hoppers The hopper master of old Colombo. If you really want to go deep into Sri Lankan street food in Colombo, consider taking this Colombo street food tour. 17. Stock up on spices at the market to take home After our Sri Lankan cooking class in Ella we were armed with a list of Sri Lankan spices, sauces and other foodstuffs we wanted to bring back home. If you are similar to us and opt for food souvenirs rather than typical souvenir tchotchkes, make a stop at the fresh market behind the Colombo bus station to stock up on all your Sri Lankan spice needs. Sri Lanka Travel, markets We wish we could take these home. We opted for dried spices instead. Not only is it fun to enter a market with a shopping list (of course, we bought more than we expected), but the quality and price of spices in Sri Lanka is hard to beat. The fragrance from the cinnamon sticks and cinnamon bark is something magical. Interaction with local vendors and asking questions about different spice qualities and options is fun, too. Recommendations for a 3rd Week in Sri Lanka 18. Disconnect and decompress in a small Sri Lankan beach village We didn’t do a lot of beach hopping to be able to give you a definitive “best beaches in Sri Lanka” list. The reason? Once Dan found this beach and family-run guesthouse near Tangalle in the south, he decided not to leave for ten days. Sri Lanka Travel, Tangalle beachers Godellawela to Silent Beach…not far from Tangalle. So while I was at my Vipassana meditation course, Dan created his own retreat on the beach. For him, mornings were about meditation, reading and a leisurely breakfast with the guest house family. Days were about more reading on the beach, exploration of nearby towns and villages, and impromptu Sri Lankan cuisine lessons at local restaurants. And late afternoons featured more beach time and sunset with a beer under a palm swooping into a strip of sand carved by the day's waves. Sunsets, like snowflakes, no two were the same. Sri Lanka Travel Guide, Southern Beaches Sunset Colorful sunset marks the end of another day. The long, empty beach and wide horizons combined with being disconnected and the laid back pace and limited movement were exactly what he needed to relax, read, and recharge. Note: If the Godellawela beach area accommodation happens to be full or the beach is experiencing construction or development, consider also the Goyambokka beach area just to the east. Likewise, consider Silent Point and Paradise Beach just to the west. How to get there: To get there from Colombo, take the train to Matara. From Matara take a taxi or a local bus. For Godellawela, ask the driver to drop you off on the side of the road at Muthu Resort and Restaurant. For Goyambokka, ask the driver to drop you off at the road between Grand Residence and Cafe Goyambokka. 19. Take a Vipassana 10-day silent meditation course If you really want to disconnect from the world to reconnect with and dig deep within yourself, there’s no better way to accomplish that than by taking a Vipassana silent meditation course for ten days. Now, this is not a luxury, laid-back meditation retreat with optional massages on the side. Instead, it’s more like meditation boot camp with the morning bell at 4AM, around 10 hours of meditation each day and almost nothing for dinner. Sri Lanka Vipassana Meditation Course Walking to the meditation hall (taken after the course was finished and phones were returned). But doing a Vipassana course is SO worth any temporary feeling of discomfort or lack of luxury, and will likely be one of the most rewarding and memorable experiences of your life. I won’t go into all the details as to why, and the mental and physical benefits. Dan already did an incredible job doing that in his Vipassana course article. I should note, however, that each Vipassana experience is different and unique. Finding a Vipassana Meditation Course in Sri Lanka: I searched around on the Dhamma website for Vipassana centers in warm climates — so as to escape winter in Berlin — which had availability when I had a break in my schedule. Finding an available Vipassana course in Sri Lanka motivated this trip, and its timing, to Sri Lanka. I chose Dhamma Sobha Vipassana Meditation Centre, a couple of hours by public bus outside of Colombo. I had a good experience there, but I would have preferred a bit more green space to walk and wander during the free time between meditation sessions. If I were to return to Sri Lanka for a Vipassana course I would instead go to Dhamma Kuta Vipassana Centre near Kandy as it is reported to have really lovely grounds and gardens with mountain views. Essential Sri Lanka Travel Information The following practical travel information is aimed to help you plan your trip to Sri Lanka, from visas to flights to train tickets, so that it all goes smoothly without any unpleasant surprises. Day Trips and Other Tours in Sri Lanka Although two weeks in Sri Lanka isn't a ton of time, we did have enough flexibility in our schedule to organize things last minute and piece things together on the spot. However, if you have a tighter schedule or want to book day trips, transfers and other activities in advance (recommended for high season) we can suggest using our partner, Get Your Guide. It offers many different day trips and other tours in Sri Lanka with no booking fees and free cancellation up to 24 hours before. In addition to the recommendations above, here are a few other day trips and tours that you might consider doing in Sri Lanka. Day Trip to the UNESCO City of Anuradhapura: Unfortunately, we did not have time to visit Anuradhapura, Sri Lanka's first capital and an important Buddhist religious site. However, it's on our list for our next visit as friends of ours who used to live in Sri Lanka recommended it. Minneriya National Park Day Trip:  Seeing elephants in the wild is pretty remarkable, and Sri Lanka has one of the highest populations of wild Asian elephants. On this day trip to Minneriya National Park from Colombo you'll have a chance to see elephants in the wild (MUCH better than seeing them at a center). This is a long day, but all the transport is taken care of for you so you can relax and enjoy. Colombo City Tour by Tuk Tuk: We went through Colombo very quickly on our way in and out of the country and wish we had spent more time there. Given the size of the city, a tuk tuk city tour like this would allow you to see the main highlights of the city within a short period of time with all the history, stories and context that only a local guide can bring. Best time to visit Sri Lanka The country has multiple monsoon seasons so “best time to visit Sri Lanka” depends much on where you want to go. For the southern, central and western parts of the country (i.e., where we were) December – May is considered the best time. In the eastern part of the country, April or May to September is considered best. Weather is changing everywhere and monsoons seem to come and go at different times each year. Sri Lanka Travel, Beaches Big waves with the early monsoons in southern Sri Lanka. How to Get a Sri Lanka Visa Most nationalities need a visa to Sri Lanka. One can be obtained online easily and quickly. Just fill out the e-visa to Sri Lanka application and pay $30 needed for a 30-day visa. Our applications were approved within 24-hours. Although we carried a copy of our visa approval, the immigration officer did not ask for it. Flights to Sri Lanka Flying from Europe we had quite a few connection options to Colombo, Sri Lanka (CMB). Many of the European flights do land very late at night or early morning so we booked a hotel near the airport for that first night. You can also pre-book your airport transfer to make it less stressful when you arrive. We often use Skyscanner to check availability and price of flights as its database includes all low-cost airlines. Once you find your best route or price then you can book directly through the airline with no extra fees. Sri Lanka Travel Guide, Rickshaw art Travel-inspired rickshaw art in Colombo. How to Book Train Tickets in Sri Lanka Many reserved seats on popular train routes sell out early. Don’t be deterred, though. You can always get on the train you want with a 2nd or 3rd class ticket purchased the same day, without a seat assignment. To get a feel for the train routes and how you might want to plan your own train journey through the country check out this train route map on the official Sri Lanka Railways website. You can also find schedules and prices for trains there as well. Traveling by train without a reservation: Many of the local trains don’t have reserved seating so you just need to show up 30-60 minutes before the train to buy a 2nd or 3rd-class ticket (usually very cheap). Then, it’s a matter of waiting on the platform for the train to arrive, and positioning yourself close to the doors so you can be one of the first to enter and snag a seat. Even if you don’t end up with a seat, don’t worry. One is likely to come available at another station. Sri Lanka Travel Guide, Train Travel Traveling without a train reservation = a fun balancing act. Buying train reservations: If you want a bit of comfort on the train with an actual assigned seat then you’ll need to do a bit of advance planning to figure out your route and dates of travel. We went straight to the main train station (Colombo Fort Railway Station) when we arrived in Colombo and bought as many reserved seats as we could for the train routes we knew we wanted to take. Despite this being 10 to 14 days in advance of the actual travel dates, some routes were already booked full. We have heard, but have not tried ourselves, that it's possible to work with local travel agents to buy reserved train tickets in advance. Seat 61, the website of all things train travel, has advice on how to do that here. Finding and Booking Hotels in Sri Lanka Although we traveled during the high season we were able to make most of our hotel bookings in Sri Lanka just a couple of days before — or even the day of — our arrival without any problem. We mostly stayed at small, family-run guesthouses and used Booking.com to find and book accommodation. English is spoken at varying levels in smaller guesthouses so we found booking accommodation through Booking.com was easier, immediate and more secure than trying to call and make a reservation over the phone or by email. Buying a SIM card in Sri Lanka When you arrive at Bandaranaike International Airport airport in Sri Lanka you’ll find several mobile phone operators offering different “tourist plans” SIM card for mobile calling and internet. We ended up choosing Mobitel SIM cards with several gigabytes of mobile data and a chunk of SMS and calling minutes for around $10. It was easy to set up and we had pretty good coverage throughout Sri Lanka during our trip.+++5
Doing the Huayhuash Trek in the Cordillera Huayhuash in Peru had been a dream of ours for over a decade. Although our expectations were high, the reality of our experience far exceeded them: eight high mountain pass crossings, surrounding peaks of 6,000+ meters (20,000+ feet), turquoise alpine lakes, stunning glacier-covered mountains, and a diversity of landscapes. Each day felt like a different experience, a new discovery. After answering endless questions about planning, organizing and preparing for a Huayhuash trek, it’s time to share it all in this Huayhuash Trekking Guide. Huayhuash Trekking Guide Trying to take it all in, the beauty of the Huayhuash Trek. Many people have never heard of the Cordillera Huayhuash since the Inca Trail and Machu Picchu usually get all the tourist and adventure travel attention in Peru. However, this small sub-range of the Peruvian Andes packs a huge punch for its size. Although only 30km long it includes six peaks over 6,000 meters (20,000 ft.) and features spectacular panoramic views of scores of high snow-covered peaks from different perspectives. It’s not a coincidence that the Cordillera Huayhuash, together with the Himalayan Mountains in Nepal and India, is often listed among the top in the “best places in the world to trek” lists. Yes, it's that stunningly beautiful. Huayhuash Trekking Guide Enjoying the view of the Cordillera Huayhuash from Cuyoc Pass (5,000m/16,404 ft). Here's why the Huayhuash Trek is one of the best treks we've ever done and why we continually recommend it. Writing this Huayhuash Trekking Guide brings back excellent memories and makes us want to return to explore even more. How to use this Huayhuash Trekking Guide: This article is intended to be comprehensive. It contains all the information we wish we'd found when we researched and planned our own Huayhuash Trek. It includes all you need to choose, organize, pack for and enjoy trekking in the mountains of the Cordillera Huayhuash. Plus, it outlines what to expect day by day on the Huayhuash Trek. If questions remain, leave a comment so that others may benefit from the answer and information. Table of Contents Choosing a Huayhuash Trek What to Expect on a 10-day Huayhuash Trek: Day by Day Best time to do the Huayhuash Trek Huayhuash Trek Difficulty and Conditions Huayhuash Trek Difficulty Rating Not a Technical Trail Dealing with Altitude on the Huayhuash Trek Rain and weather on the Huayhuash trek Food Along the Huayhuash Trek Clean Water Along the Huayhuash Trek Huayhuash Trek Campsites and Sleeping Arrangements Organizing a Huayhuash Trek: Your Options Doing the Huayhuash Trek Independently Huayhuash Trek tour with a guide and support team Choosing a Huayhuash trekking agency Costs of a Huayhuash Trek Tour Renting Trekking and Camping Gear in Huaraz Leaving your luggage behind during the trek Acclimatization hikes around Huaraz before the Huayhuash Trek Where to stay in Huaraz What to pack for the Huayhuash Trek Clothing Other Trekking Gear Toiletries and Health Kit Electricity and Charging Batteries Conclusion: Huayhuash Trek, A Trek of a Lifetime Choosing a Huayhuash Trek Huayhuash treks fall roughly into two categories: short (4-7 days) and long (8-14 days). If you have the time, we recommend choosing a route that is 10-12 days. This length of circuit can provide a complete Huayhuash experience and deliver more views and stunning landscapes than you thought possible in one trek. Full Huayhuash Trek (8-14 days) Longer treks will take you over more mountain passes in a full circuit so you can appreciate some of the high peaks from multiple angles. Each day includes at least one, and sometimes two, mountain passes ranging from 4,000+ meters/ 13,000+ feet up to 5,050m/16,570 feet. It is recommended to do three acclimatization hikes in and around Huaraz before embarking on one of these treks (see below for details). Huayhuash Trek Guide, Day 4 Clouds clear in the early morning of day 4 of our Huayhuash Trek. We chose a 10-day Huayhuash trek and were very happy with the route, pace, difficulty and overall experience. We met other trekkers who had done an 8-day trek, but we found their route cut out some of our favorite vistas. Short Huayhuash Treks (4-7 days) Also known as Mini Huayhuash Treks, these shorter routes intend to provide trekkers a sort of “best of” sample of the Cordillera Huayhuash in a shorter period of time. These routes tend to focus around Lake Jahuacocha or Lake Carhuacocha and cross over several 4,000+ meter / 13,000+ feet mountain passes. Although not as challenging as the full Huayhuash Trek, these treks still require prior acclimatization in and around Huaraz. Note: If you don’t think that you have the time, physical endurance or strength to do one of the Huayhuash Treks, consider one of the Santa Cruz treks in the nearby Cordillera Blanca. As we understand, these treks still include stunning scenery but are shorter and less physically demanding. Environmental Note: No matter which trek you choose, please remember that the Cordillera Huayhuash is a fragile, high desert environment. Much of the land is also owned by local communities. It's important that as visitors we respect the land and local people as we do our best to reduce our negative impact. Only use designated campsites set up by the community, pack out all of your trash with you, and be mindful of water and other resources. What to Expect on a 10-day Huayhuash Trek: Day by Day Our Route: Matacancha – Mitucocha – Carhuacocha Lake – Huayhuash – Viconga – Huanacpatay Valley – Huayllapa Village – Gashpapampa Valley – Jahuacocha Lake – Llamac Village Total Hiking Distance: 70.4 miles / 113 km Number of Days: 9 nights/10 days, including a van transfer to the trailhead from Huaraz on Day 1 and return to Huaraz on Day 10. Maximum Altitude: 5,050 (16,570 feet) Season: May – early September (dry season) Difficulty: Medium-Difficult Note: The itinerary outlined below is the one that we took. Although the route is the same, some of our campsites and overnights may differ slightly from some of the standard 10-day Huayhuash Trek itineraries. Together with our guide, we decided to adjust the itinerary so that we would climb up to San Antonio Pass on the morning of Day 7 vs. the afternoon of Day 6. This meant that we spread out the campsites after that a bit differently and did not have two nights at Lake Jahuacocha — a deliberate itinerary adjustment which was preferable to all of us. We calculated distances and times using the Endomondo app. While fairly accurate, there may be some small differences than if we'd used a more sophisticated GPS device. Day 1: Drive from Huaraz to Matacancha (4,150 meters / 13,615 feet) This is a driving day (7 hours) from Huaraz to get you to the trailhead so that you ready to start hiking the next day. You go through some beautiful scenery, including some overlooks with views of the Cordillera Huayhuash and a drive over the Cuncush Pass (4,750 meters/15,580 feet). Once at the trailhead, you’ll have time to unload all the gear, learn how to set up your tent, enjoy views of Mount Rondoy (5,870 meters / 19260 feet) and eat a hearty dinner before turning in early for the night. Day 2: Matacancha – Cacanan Pass – Mitucocha Hiking Distance: 5.66 miles / 9.1 km Number of hours hiking: 5 hours Maximum Altitude: 4,700 m (15,420 feet) This day begins with a steep zigzag ascent to Cacanan Pass (4,700 m/15,420 ft) which marks the continental divide (all rivers east of it flow towards the Amazon and all on the west flow towards the Pacific Ocean). Enjoy a snack and rest at the top before descending into a green valley where you may find a few vicuñas (related to llamas) grazing high in the hills or vizcachas (animals which look like a rabbit crossed with a squirrel) dashing around. Huayhuash Trekking Guide, Day 2 Campsite Campsite with a view, Day 2 of the Huayhuash Trek. You’ll also have your first view of some of the snow-covered high peaks of Ninashanca (5,607 m), Jirashanca (6,094 m) and Jiraschanco Chico (5,445 m). The trail continues past the small village of Janca to the campsite near Lake Mitucocha at the foot of Mount Jirashanca. Day 3: Mitucocha – Carhuac Pass – Carhuacocha Lake Hiking Distance: 6.5 miles / 10.5 km Number of hours hiking: 5.5 hours Maximum Altitude: 4,650 m (15,255 feet) The walk up to Carhuac Pass (4,650 m) is rather gentle and takes around three hours. You’ll be rewarded at the top with the first view of Mount Yerupaja (6,634 m), Peru’s second highest peak and the highest of the Cordillera Huayhuash. On the way down towards Lake Carhuacocha you’ll pass some Incan ruins and another small village. Huayhuash Trek Guide Stone walls and ruins mark a small village en route to Lake Carhuacocha and the campsite. The campsite is on the shore of the lake and features a stunning panoramic view of the snow-covered peaks of Yerupaja, Yerupaja Chico (6,121 m), Siula Grande (6,344 m) Jirashanca and Jirashanca Chico (5,446 m). Day 4: Carhuacocha Lake – Siula Pass – Huayhuash Hiking Distance: 8.5 miles / 13.7 km Number of hours hiking: 7 hours Maximum Altitude: 4,800 m (15,750 feet) Wake up before sunrise, grab a cup of coca tea and climb to the top of the hill behind the campsite to watch the light transform the nearby snow-covered peaks as the sun rises. The reflection of the snow-covered peak in the lake is like a mirror, perfectly still and crisp. Mother Nature puts on a beautiful show as the colors change to pink and orange. Huayhuash Trekking Guide In awe of Mother Nature at dawn. This is a beautiful morning walk that winds its way past the turquoise alpine lakes of Grangrajanca (4,245 m), Siula (4,290 m) and Quesillococha (4,332 m). As you rise in altitude to reach Siula Pass (4,800 m) more layers of mountains and lakes appear. Huayhuash Trekking Guide Tranquility and stillness of alpine lakes. It’s a steep and rocky ascent to the pass, but you’re rewarded with views of Mount Carnicero (5,960 m), Jurau (5,600 m) and the eastern side of Siula Grande (6,344 m). Enjoy a picnic lunch here before descending to the campsite near Huayhuash. Huayhuash Trek Guide, Peru Admiring the view leading up to Siula Pass on Day 4. Day 5: Huayhuash – Portachuelo Pass – Viconga (Hot Springs) Hiking Distance: 7.3 miles / 11.75 km Number of hours hiking: 5 hours Maximum Altitude: 4,750 m (15,585 feet) The day begins with a relatively easy ascent to Portachuelo Pass (4,750 m). Enjoy a snack at the top with views of the snow-covered mountains of the Cordillera Raura. The descent is long and steady, passing through green valleys filled with wildflowers and perhaps a llama, alpaca or two. The Viconga campsite is at the foot of Mount Cuyoc (5,550 m). This campsite is the one place along the trek where you'll have an option to bathe. Huayhuash Trek in Peru, Day 5 We encounter a few local shepherds on day 5 of the Huayhuash Trek. Note: There are several hot spring pools near the campsite. We highly recommended you enjoy them thoroughly, both to bathe and to relax your muscles in the warm water. There is a small pool for washing with soap and then two other pools to soak in once you’re clean. Day 6: Viconga – Cuyoc Pass – Pampa Cuyoc Hiking Distance: 5 miles / 8 km Number of hours hiking: 4 hours Maximum Altitude: 5,000 m (16,404 feet) This relatively short day includes Cuyoc Pass (5,000 m), the first of the trek’s two 5,000+ meter mountain passes. This is a relatively long switchback ascent through rocky, high desert terrain. The panoramic views from the top are spectacular and include a sort of “best of” the Cordillera Huayhuash, including Jurau, Sarapo (6,127 m), Siula, Yerupaja, Rasac (6,017 m), Tsacra (5,548 m) and Huacrish (5,622 m). Huayhuash Trek, Cuyoc Pass Descent Incredible panoramic views as we descend from Cuyoc Pass. Descend to Pampa Cuyoc at the base of San Antonio Pass (5,050 m) for lunch and a relaxing afternoon. There are optional short hikes to nearby hills for anyone who still wants to stretch their legs. Huayhuash Trekking Guide, Day 6 More spectacular views on Day 6 of the Huayhuash Trek. Note: Many itineraries include an optional climb up to San Antonio Pass on the same day with an overnight at Huanacpatay campsite. Together with our guide, our group opted to hike up to San Antonio in the morning when the skies were clearer and we had more energy. Day 7: Huanacpatay Valley – San Antonio Pass – Huayllapa Village Hiking Distance: 11.7 miles / 18.8 km Number of hours hiking: 7 hours Maximum Altitude: 5,050 m (16,570 feet) Begin this day with a steep climb up the scree and rocks to San Antonio Pass (5,050 m), the highest pass of the trek. Take your time at the top to enjoy the best viewpoint of Mount Siula Grande (of “Touching the Void” fame) and nearby alpine lakes. You may also spot a few condors flying about, searching for prey. Huayhuash Trekking Guide, San Antonio Pass Views of Siula Grande (of Touching the Void fame) from San Antonio Pass. Descend the same way and continue on the trail through a series of green valleys and cultivated fields to Huayllapa village. After you set up camp in one of the school fields, enjoy a walk through the village Note: this is the only set of shops and services you will come across on the trek. Someone in our group had his hiking shoes repaired here as one of the soles had begun to fall off. Day 8: Huayllapa Village – Tapush Pass – Gashpapampa Valley Hiking Distance: 7.2 miles / 11.6 km Number of hours hiking: 5 hours Maximum Altitude: 4,800 m (15,750 feet) Leaving the village behind the trail takes you up to a high plateau that rises gradually up to Tapush Pass (4,800 m). You’ll have glacier-covered Mount Diablo Mudo in front of you for much of the way up to the pass. Views over Lake Susucocha (4,740 m) are revealed at the top. Enjoy the wildflowers, birds and views of the Cordillera Blanca in the distance as you descend into Gashpapampa Valley for the night. Once you reach camp, bundle up since this was a pretty cold night and morning for us. Huayhuash Trekking Guide, Day 8 Views of Lake Susucocha from Tapush Pass on Day 8. Day 9: Gashpapampa Valey – Yaucha Pass – Cerro Huacrish – Jahuacocha Lake Hiking Distance: 5.8 miles / 9.3 km Number of hours hiking: 5 hours Maximum Altitude: 4,850 m (15,910 feet) Each time you think that the views and the moment can’t get any better, they do. Take it slow and enjoy. Huayhuash Trekking Guide, Day 9 A beautiful start to Day 9, with views of both Cordillera Blanca and Cordillera Huayhuash. The day begins with a slow and steady scree-covered ascent which takes you up to Yaucha Pass (4,850 m), the final high mountain pass of the trek. As you come over the pass you have an incredible panoramic view of Cordillera Huayhuash’s highest peaks, decked out in glaciers and snow-covered. Talk about dramatic. Keep your eyes out for condors here as well. Huayhuash Trekking Guide, Day 9 Reward at the end of day 9: stunning views of Lake Jahuacocha and glacier-covered peaks. Continue on to Cerro Huacrish with another beautiful view to both the giant peaks of the Cordillera Huayhuash on the right and Cordillera Blanca and Huallanca on the left. Just sit and take it all in. Finally, as you descend towards Lake Jahuacocha you’ll reach another ridge that overlooks the turquoise lakes below surrounded by mountains. There is one last very steep descent through pastures and grazing cows to get to the campsite near the shores of Lake Jahuacocha. Watch how the light and the reflection on the lake of the surrounding mountains changes throughout the day. Huayhuash Trek Guide Taking the optional hike (2 hours) to Solteracocha Lake at the end of day 9. Since we had free time in the afternoon we did an optional hike out to Solteracocha Lake (3.6 miles / 5.8 km) that took two hours. Climb up to the rim above the lake and just enjoy the deep turquoise color of the alpine lake and the surrounding snow-covered peaks. Day 10: Jahuacocha Lake – Pampa Llamac Pass – Llamac Village – Huaraz Hiking Distance: 8.85 miles / 14.25 km Number of hours hiking: 4.5 hours Number of hours driving: 5 hours Maximum Altitude: 4,300 m (14,110 feet) This is the last day of hiking and although it isn’t as dramatic as the day before, it's still pleasant and features a relatively easy walk out to Llamac Village. You’ll be able to catch one last view of the Cordillera Huayhuash peaks from Pampa Llaman Pass (4,300 m) before descending through villages and high desert to the village. The vehicle will be waiting there to take you back to Huaraz. Best time to do the Huayhuash Trek The trekking season in the Cordillera Huayhuash and Cordillera Blanca begins mid-to-late May and runs until September. This is the dry season and also considered “Andean summer.” The high tourist season is July and August. During this time you'll have clearer weather, but the lack of rain means that the mountains will dry and brown throughout the season. We did our trek mid to late May; we felt it perfect timing. We had a bit of rain at the very beginning of our trek, but the mornings were clear and the rains only usually began in the afternoon after we'd already set up camp. After a few days, the rains stopped altogether and we had perfect weather. Because it was still early in the trekking season, trails and campsites were not crowded. Mountains remained green and lush since the rainy season had just ended. If you can time it, try your Huayhuash trek during the shoulder season from mid-May to early June. Huayhuash Trekking Guide, When to Go Clear skies and green hills during our mid to late May Huayhuash trek. The low and rainy season is from October to April with the highest rain in January – March. Many high passes are still snowed in from December to March, so that that might make it impossible for trekkers and the donkeys to be able to pass. There is also the risk of landslides during this time which might wash out the trails and hillsides. There have robberies of independent trekkers during this time as are alone with no other people around, so it's not recommended to trek independently in the off season. Because of all this we recommend timing your trek between May and September or early October. Huayhuash Trek Difficulty and Conditions The following information is based on our own personal experiences on a 10-day fully-supported Huayhuash trek. Support included a trekking guide, cook, donkey wranglers, and a team of donkeys to carry our gear, camping equipment, food and trash. We added information for independent trekkers where available. Huayhuash Trek Difficulty Rating We’d categorize the 10-day Huayhuash Trek we did as medium-high difficulty, leaning more on the high side of the range, because of its daily high mountain pass crossings (4,000+ meter/13,000+ feet), sleeping at high altitude and distance. Don't let the elevation frighten you away. Our trekking group included people from their late 20s to a 74-year-old (who had both knees replaced within the last three years). We all had prior experience hiking and doing multi-day treks, but none of us were hard core mountain climbers. We'd all simply done our acclimatization treks in and around Huaraz — that's what makes the difference. Huayhuash Trek Group Our Huayhuash trek group: a diversity of nationalities, backgrounds and ages. While this implies that special training is not required for the Huayhuash trek, you ought to be relatively active and in good physical shape before taking it on. You should be either be accustomed to or prepared for multi-day treks with steep, slow uphill climbs at high altitude. Not a Technical Trail The Huayhuash trek we did was not technical. To do it, we didn't need special equipment (e.g., climbing ropes, crampons, or other mountain climbling fittings). We do recommend using walking or trekking poles, however. They provide stability and balance and take some of the pressure off your knees and joints, especially on the steep descents. Huayhuash Trek Guide, High Alpine Peaks High alpine, the standard Huayhuash Trek. Huayhuash trekking trails in the mountains are well-maintained and for the most part are relatively easy to follow. There are a couple of streams or rivers to cross, and depending upon the time of year you may need to take your shoes off or consider using river sandals. That’s all part of the fun. Dealing with Altitude on the Huayhuash Trek You will reach some high altitudes during the Huayhuash trek. The highest point on our trek was 5,050 meters / 16,570 feet at San Antionio Pass. Each day, we crossed mountain passes ranging from 4,000 – 5,000 meters / 13,000 – 16,500 feet. And, we were often sleeping around 4,000 meters / 13,000 feet. Understanding how your body responds to altitude and how to best manage your response to it is important for your enjoyment of this trek. Huayhuash Trek, dealing with altitude Huayhuash trek. Taking it slow and steady helps to manage energy at altitude. At altitude, our advice is to take it slow and steady on the uphill. Our guide, Edgar, was a hiking zen master at this – he would start our group out slow in the morning, especially if we had a steep ascent, so that our bodies could wake up and adjust. If you think you’re going ridiculously slow, then it probably means you are at the right pace. Trekking is like meditation The slower you move, the more likely you are to enjoy what's around you. And the more successful you will be. Huayhuash Trek, Peru - stunning mountain views We timed our breaks for the best mountain views. It’s better to proceed deliberately and slowly with fewer breaks than to move quickly and wear yourself out so that you need to recuperate with frequent and longer stops. At high altitude this is even more important in order to avoid getting sick and to maintain your energy levels. In addition, drink LOTS of water as your body needs more liquids at altitude. I would usually drink a liter of water at breakfast before we even began walking, just to have a bit of “hydration reserve.” It’s recommended to drink at least two to three liters a day at high altitudes like this. Note: If you really suffer from altitude sickness you can also consider taking Diamox. We have avoided taking it by using natural methods (e.g., water, walking slowly, etc.), but we do know people who have benefited from taking it in small doses. Be sure to talk with your doctor first about its side effects, including the additional water you must drink when taking it. Rain and weather on the Huayhuash trek We'd been warned about rain because the timing of our trek coincided with the end of the rainy season (mid-May). We arrived prepared with waterproof ponchos, jackets, and pants. Mornings were usually clearest and at the beginning of our trek, it rained during a couple of afternoons. But we didn’t find the the weather a hindrance to our enjoyment. Only once on the trail were we forced to pile on all the serious rain gear. All other times, the rain arrived only after we'd set up camp, which included a waterproof dining tent. Carry a waterproof cover for your day pack. Protect any valuable electronic gear like smartphones or cameras in a dry bag or multiple Ziploc plastic bags. All our gear was carried by donkeys, and all the bags were wrapped in multiple layers of plastic tarp to protect them from rain. In addition, we packed our clothes, sleeping bags and other important items in an additional layer of plastic bags. If you are trekking independently and carrying all your gear with you, you must carry a good waterproof cover for your backpack and use Ziploc or other waterproof bags to keep everything dry inside in the case of heavy rain. Note: If you monitor weather forecasts and apps, we recommend you consider taking them with a grain of salt. For us, forecasts for the Huayhuash (Ancash) mountain area predicted alpine weather armageddon right up until the moment we began our trek. Reality turned out to be quite different (see the photos). For those of you who book a Huayhuash trek and are freaked out by weather reports — just as we had been — and you find yourself tempted to cancel, seriously reconsider. If you book with a trekking company, as we did, check in with them for a bit of a local weather report reality check. Food Along the Huayhuash Trek If you do a fully-supported trek as we did, there's absolutely no chance for you to go hungry on the Huayhuash trek. Our group had its own cook and he created some incredible meals for us using a simple camping kitchen and limited ingredients. Food along the Huayhuash Trek tour A beautiful Peruvian causa for lunch along our Huayhuash trek. On most days we were served three full meals, with lunch and dinner usually each consisting of 3 courses (e.g., soup or salad, main dish and dessert). On days where the schedule and route was a little tighter, we were given sandwiches as a picnic lunch. Each morning we we were given bags of treats (e.g., chocolate, quinoa bars, biscuits, fruit, etc.) to ensure we never got hungry on the trail between meals. We always had a mid-afternoon tea and snack break at the campsite. There were always treats and surprises each day. If you are vegetarian or have food restrictions (e.g., gluten, dairy, etc.), alert your trekking company and guide in advance so they can prepare accordingly. Independent trekkers will need to carry and cook their own food, of course. There are a few big grocery stores in Huaraz that can supply you with basic ingredients, but if you have a specific type of camping food or brand that you prefer then you should probably bring that from home. Please clean up after yourself! We saw too many empty discarded cans of tuna and other food containers along the trail. That's just rude and disrespectful. Clean Water Along the Huayhuash Trek We were provided ample amounts of clean water (i.e., boiled for a certain period of time to kill germs) each morning by our cook and the support team. This is what we drank throughout the day as we walked. Our goal was to drink a minimum of two to three liters of water each day. Of course, there are lots of mountain streams where you can gather water to drink throughout the trek. We carried water purification drops with us in case we needed to use water from a stream or other source. We never had to use them because clean water had already been prepared for us. Huayhuash Trek Campsites and Sleeping Arrangements You’ll be camping and sleeping in tents throughout the Huayhuash trek. There are no real homestays or other sleeping options, except in Huayllapa where there are some family guest houses. We slept in two-person tents (provided by the trekking agency). Although these tents were not huge, we had enough space to sleep and position our belongings on the edges of the tent. By the time we arrived at the campsite each day, our tents were usually already set up for us by the support team. We were very thankful for this little bit of luxury after a long day of hiking. Huayhuash Trek - Tents, Camping and Community Campsites Our dining tent and sleeping tents set up at a community campsite. Not a bad view. Local communities manage the campsites along the different Huayhuash trekking routes. This community-based system is relatively new. It used to be that trekkers could pretty much pitch their camp anywhere, and for free. Understandably, local people got a bit tired of people using their lands, and often not cleaning up after themselves. Communities weren't seeing any financial benefit from tourism development in the region. A system was then set up to compensate the local communities for use of their lands and also to help share some money and benefit from tourism and trekking growth. Campsites are still pretty basic and located in remote areas, so don’t expect services or shops. In general, you’ll find a place to pitch tents and an outhouse (or two) on the edge usually consisting of a drop toilet or a toilet bowl without water. With the exception of the hot springs near Lake Viconga on Day 5, there is no running water at the campsites. Expect to trek without showers. (Note: if you are on a fully-supported trek like the one we took, you will likely be provided a bowl of hot water in the morning for washing.) Each community collects a fee from each person (usually $3-$8/person) who stays at a campsite and uses its facilities. You’ll often find an individual or family visiting early in the morning to collect the money. You’ll receive a receipt for your payment. We heard stories of some trekkers trying to arrive late or pack up early to avoid paying these community camping fees. Just don’t. It’s disrespectful and it creates problems between trekkers and local people, making it difficult for future visitors wishing to enjoy the area. Organizing a Huayhuash Trek: Your Options A Huayhuash trek can be done either independently (e.g., without a guide) or through a trekking agency (e.g., fully supported with a guide, cook, assistants, donkeys to carry gear, etc.). Decision factors include your trekking experience and physical shape, skill at reading trekking maps, budget, weather, and preference. Let's examine these. Doing the Huayhuash Trek Independently Although you won’t see trail markers along the route you can usually pick up trails pretty easily based on their use by trekkers, donkey trains and local shepherds. This means that if you have a lot of experience doing multi-day treks, reading trail maps, using a GPS and hiking at high altitude then you should be able to safely do the Huayhuash trek independently. Some advantages of trekking Huayhuash independently including being able to create and adjust your own route and setting your own pace. The cost will be much lower as you are not paying for a support team, guide, etc. However, you should still stay at community campsites and pay the required fees so as to respect local people and local community regulations. However, there are some other considerations. Trekking independently means that you’re carrying all your own camping gear, food, clothing, and more. Since the only real village with shops is Huayllapa, you should expect to carry 7-8 days of food with you. All of this weight adds up and can get heavy, especially when you’re going over a 5,000+ meter / 16,500 foot mountain pass. We saw some trekkers struggle with their packs and the extra weight. In addition, we also met some trekkers who were lost as they thought they were following one circuit, but ended up on another. Our guide would usually help to steer them in the right direction or offer a short cut to help them get back on track. While this may not sound like a big deal on the surface, it can be quite stressful when you only have a limited amount of food with you and the weather around you is changing as the day wears on. For more on trekking Huayhuash independently check out this guide. Huayhuash Trek tour with a guide and support team Given the length, distance and high altitudes of the Huayhuash trek, we knew we wanted to do it supported – with a guide, cook, support team, donkeys to carry our gear. Our goal was to enjoy the walk, including the stunning mountain landscapes and being immersed in nature without worrying about getting lost, carrying all our gear, or struggling to cook or set up our tent each night. We were and are thrilled with our choice. Having a local trekking guide provided us with the peace of mind that we were always on the right path. (Some of you may remember, we have a history of getting lost in mountains). Our local guide, Edgar, knew everything about the Cordillera Huayhuash from leading trekking and mountain climbing groups there for over 17 years – all the local legends of the peaks around us, wildlife, birds, flowers, natural medicines, and more. As he was Quechua he could also provide context and information about indigenous culture, growing up in the mountains, and changes he’d witnessed over his lifetime. Huayhuash Trek tour, donkeys carrying gear Thankful for donkeys to carry our camping and trekking gear. While doing the Huayhuash trek independently may save you some money and allow you more flexibility in route and pace, our experience proved to us beyond a doubt that the benefits of doing a supported trek with a guide, cook, support team and donkeys far outweighs the costs. Choosing a Huayhuash trekking agency If you do as we did and work with a trekking agency for a supported Huayhuash trek, the next step is trying to figure out which trek to choose based on the route, level of comfort, budget, and schedule you're looking for. Booking a Huayhuash Trek in Advance Because we had a limited window of time to do our 10-day Huayhuash Trek we needed to book our trip in advance. When I began to search around and contact different trekking agencies in Huaraz I found that prices varied quite a bit and could be very expensive, especially if there wasn’t an existing group departure for the dates I wanted. A bit discouraged, I continued to search, focusing on trekking companies which already had existing trek departure dates that fit our schedule. That’s when I found Quechuandes Travel and Adventure Agency recommended on some traveler and trekker forums and their open group departures calendar. Jackpot! They had a departure date for the 10-day Huayhuash trek we wanted to do during our limited time window. From the first communication with Marie, the co-owner, I was impressed by the transparency of information, pricing and details. I also appreciated that she was explicit that the price was the same whether we booked in advance or as a walk-in. And, we felt that price was fair to all parties — to us, to the company, and to the guides — from the beginning. We paid a deposit (50%) to secure our spots for that departure date (Note: Transferwise offered the best rates for this international wire transfer so if you’re new to the service use this link to get a free $500 international transfer). The remainder we paid in cash when we met in person in Huaraz a few days prior to the trek departure. Another thing that impressed me about Quechuandes were the materials they sent in advance. They focused on sustainable tourism — the environment and conservation, being respectful of local culture, understanding local socio-economic issues. You could tell that this information was not copied from the internet, but created after years of experience working with the local communities and in these mountains. Regardless of which operator you choose to take you on the Huayhuash Trek, select one which works with local guides and support staff, pays fair wages, and operates in a responsible and respectful way towards the environment and local people. Note: G Adventures, one of our partners, also offers a 7-day Huayhuash Trek from June to August that includes the transfer from Lima (13 days total, Lima – Huayhuash – Lima). We’ve done other treks with G Adventures before (e.g., Lost City Trek in Colombia and Mount Kilimanjaro in Tanzania) and can recommend them for quality treks as well. Since we wanted to trek in May this was before the G Adventures tours began for the season. Booking a Huayhuash Trek in Huaraz If you have a flexible schedule, it’s also possible to book your Huayhuash trek directly in Huaraz, the city which serves as the base for all treks in Cordillera Huayhuash and Cordillera Blanca. There are heaps of trekking agencies around, many with signs outside indicating upcoming trek departures and availability. You can walk around, meet with different trekking agencies, ask about price and services, and then make a decision. If the price sounds too good, it might be. Ask questions to be sure of what you’re getting for your money. We witnessed other groups on the trail whose food options appeared limited and whose tents and donkeys looked worse for wear. It’s worth it to spend a bit more for the comfort of a trained guide and cook, and to know that the staff are receiving fair wages and the animals are well cared for. As the Huayhuash Trek has become more popular these last years many departures are already filled up so you may not be able to get on the trek for the time period you'd like. So if you have any sort of limited schedule it's best to book in advance. Costs of a Huayhuash Trek Tour Current (2019) costs for for the 10-day Huayhuash Trek with Quechuandes (minimum of 5 people in the group) is $70/day or $700 for the full trek. The maximum group size was eight persons. Given the level of support and service we received we felt this was a very fair price, and it was much lower than many other similar trekking agencies. The tour and price included: private transport to the trailhead (Matacancha) and from the end (Llamac) a certified mountain guide, cook, muleteer (donkey handler), and assistant donkeys to carry gear (up to 8kg per trekker), food, cooking equipment, etc. + emergency horse food, snacks and clean water 2-person tent and sleeping mat. If you wanted a private tent, that was an additional fee The tour price did not include sleeping bags or community campsite fees (approx. 200 soles/ $60 per person for ten days). I rented my Marmot down -10 C sleeping bag from Quechuandes for 20 soles/$6 per day ($60 total). Dan was able to borrow a sleeping bag from a friend in Berlin, but otherwise he would have rented one from them as well. It is essential you carry a proper alpine sleeping bag on this trek. Renting Trekking and Camping Gear in Huaraz You can arrive in Huaraz without any trekking or camping gear and be outfitted with all that you need pretty quickly either through renting or buying. Quechuandes, the trekking agency that we used, rents out a large selection of gear (that’s where I rented my -10 C down Marmot sleeping bag). Many other trekking agencies offer the same. In addition, there are quite a few shops in town specializing in trekking gear where you can buy new or sometimes even used clothes or other items. A couple on our trek bought used fleece jackets and waterproof pants from Huaraz all of which served them well. Leaving your luggage behind during the trek Most accommodation and tour operators/trekking agencies will allow you to leave your big bags or luggage with them for the time that you're doing the Huayhuash trek. We left our big backpacks at the hotel in Huaraz we were staying at prior to the trek and then picked them up on our return. Although we haven't heard of any problems with luggage and theft, it's always best to securely lock your bags for their time in storage. Acclimatization hikes around Huaraz before the Huayhuash Trek Especially if you’re coming from sea level (e.g., Lima) or low altitudes, it's a wise (if not essential) idea to spend a couple of days acclimatizing in Huaraz (3,050 meters / 10,000 feet) and doing a few acclimatization day hikes. This means hiking to a higher altitude during the day and then sleeping at lower elevation at night (e.g., Huaraz). Huayhuash Trek Guide, Acclimatization Hikes Lake Rajucolta hike with Mount Huantsan (6,395 m / 20,980 ft) as the backdrop. A beautiful way to acclimatize. For the Huayhuash Trek with its daily high mountain passes, at least three acclimatization hikes are recommended prior to setting off. Marie from Quechuandes essentially told us we had to do a minimum of three acclimatization hikes before starting the Huayhuash trek. This may sound a bit extreme, but we get it. She’s trying to ensure that trekkers identify any problems they may have in advance and be sure they are fully prepared so they can mitigate risks and enjoy the trek to the fullest. In fact, we met a group of women on an 8-day Huayhuash trek who did not do any acclimatization treks. They were hurting the first couple of days and looked miserable. Don’t do that to yourself. Don't sabotage your trek for the sake of saving a couple of days. It's a poor decision. Altitude sickness is no joke. It’s not fun and it can become very dangerous. It’s better to take the time to acclimatize properly before departing on the long trek. Not to mention, the acclimatization hikes are all pretty fabulous and enjoyable in their own right. Marie sent us this list of suggested acclimatization treks. After talking with her we chose the following acclimatization day hikes to help prepare us for the Huayhuash Trek. Lake Wilcacocha Acclimatization Hike Distance: 11.9 km / 7.4 miles Walking time: 3.5 hours Max elevation: 3,700 meters / 13,140 feet This is a simple and easy hike near Huaraz. It's a good one to begin with. It features a steady incline for a couple of hours along a dirt road until you reach Lake Wilcacocha at the top. The lake itself is not particularly impressive, but there is a nice overlook so you can get a feel for the countryside around. Huahuash Trek Guide, Acclimatization Hikes Views along the Lake Wilcacocha acclimatization hike near Huaraz. To get there, take the Route 10 or Route E collectivo (public bus) from near the Huaraz central market (corner of Raymondi and Hualcan streets). It costs around 2-3 soles ($0.60-$0.90) per person. Let the driver know that you want to get off near Laguna Wilcacocha. After getting off the bus, cross the small bridge and you’ll see a sign at the trailhead. Lake Rajucolta Acclimatization Hike Distance: 16.6 km / 10.3 miles Walking time: 5 hours, 20 minutes Max elevation: 4,270 meters / 14,010 feet This is not one of the typical acclimatization hikes, but it came recommended by Marie. We really enjoyed it. It’s a nice walk that isn’t too difficult at the beginning, but increases in difficulty as you climb up to the lake. Mount Huantsan, the 3rd highest peak in the Cordillera Blanca (6,395 m / 20,980 ft), guides the way and serves as a stunning backdrop to Laguna Rajucolta. Huayhuash Trek, Lake Rajucolta acclimatization hike near Huaraz, Peru Laguna Rajucolta. We had the trails all to ourselves. There were no other hikers on the trail the day we went. We and two other hikers going on the same Huayhuash trek as us had the whole place to ourselves, with the exception of a few shepherds and their flocks of animals. Highly recommended. The Laguna Rajucolta hike requires private transport with a 4×4 vehicle to get there and back as the roads get rough after turning off the main road. The drive takes around 1.5-2 hours from Huaraz. We hired a driver through Quechuandes for around 220 soles ($66) for the entire car (4-5 persons). He dropped us off at the trailhead in the morning and then waited for us all day to return. Laguna 69 Hike Distance: 13.8 km / 8.6 miles Walking time: 4 hours, 45 minutes Max elevation: 4,600 meters / 15,090 feet This is one of the more popular day hikes in the Huaraz region, and for good reason. Located in Huascaran National Park in the Cordillera Blanca, this hike climbs up to Laguna 69, a beautiful alpine lake with Mount Chacraraju (6,112 meters / 20,052 feet) as a backdrop. The views on the path up are also pretty stunning and spectacular. Be sure to allow and take time to look around and enjoy them. There are some challenging, steep ascents. But, that’s also what makes it an excellent acclimatization hike and preparation for the Huayhuash trek. Huayhuash Trek, Laguna 69 Acclimatization Hike Stunning mountain and waterfall views en route to Laguna 69. The easiest way to organize the Laguna 69 hike is to buy a “tour” in Huaraz that essentially includes bus transportation with a guide. We bought ours from Quechuandes for 35 soles / $10.50 per person and had an early morning 5AM pickup at our hotel. You’ll stop for breakfast along the way. If you don’t have a packed lunch with you already, your breakfast stop is also an opportunity to buy lunch for the hike. The entrance fee for Huascaran National Park is 30 soles / $9 per person. Laguna 69 Hike in the Cordillera Blanca, Peru Turquoise waters of Laguna 69 with Mount Chacraraju as a backdrop. Where to stay in Huaraz There is certainly no shortage of places to stay in Huaraz. We stayed at El Jacal Classic before and after our trek. It is located a few blocks from the main square and downtown area, so it is both conveniently located and quiet. Request a room that is not at the top of the stairs as it can get a bit loud with people coming and going. Breakfast is served on the rooftop, which has a great view. They are accustomed to trekkers, so it's no problem to leave your luggage there when you're off in the mountains. What to pack for the Huayhuash Trek Check out our full Ultimate Trekking Packing List with all the details on what to bring with you on a day or multi-day trek like the Huayhuash Trek (or anywhere else). However, we offer a customized Huayhuash Trek packing list to ensure you have what you need, yet don't overpack. We suggest you ask your trekking agency and perform some independent research about the temperatures at night during the time of your trek. This will determine how many layers you'll need to carry and the weight your jacket(s). For example, temperatures dipped to -10 C / 14 F during a couple of the nights and early mornings on our trek so we were very thankful to have extra layers of long underwear, fleece and more. As mentioned above, tents and sleeping pads were provided by Quechuandes. Clothing You really don’t need much in this department. Don’t worry about packing clean clothes for each day, as everyone is just wearing the same thing or repurposing the same clothes each day. Here’s what we suggest: 1-2 pairs of trekking pants: We're both been using Clothing Arts Travel Pants (for men and for women) as our go-to trekking pants these last few years. They hold up well on multi-day treks in terms of hiding dirt, drying quickly, not getting stinky. We find the additional secure pockets useful on treks for keeping phones, money, tissues and other things handy. 2-3 short-sleeved t-shirts: Preferably quick-dry or regular cotton. 1 long-sleeved travel/trekking shirt: This is useful not only as a layer of warmth in the chilly mornings when you first start hiking, but also as protection for your arms from the strong sun (his and hers). Hiking shoes: We both recently shifted to wearing Oboz Sawtooth hiking boots. The insoles and support for your feet are really good, and the shoes are sturdy and can stand up to some tough terrain. In addition, Oboz plants a tree for every pair of shoes sold so you can feel good that your purchase is going towards reforestation and environmental projects. Men's Obuz Sawtooth Hiking Shoes: Buy at REI | Buy on Amazon | Women's Obuz Sawtooth Hiking Shoes: Buy at REI | Buy on Amazon 1 set of evening clothes for dinner and sleep sleep: T-shirt, long pants (or pajama bottoms), socks. To ensure these remain dry, pack them in a plastic bag or other impermeable container inside your backpack. Underwear: Usually one pair for every day of the hike. Here are recommended men's boxer shorts and women's underwear Hiking socks: I love SmartWool hiking socks as my first pairs lasted me almost seven years of heavy usage. If you prefer a thinner sock check out their ultra-light line. I often wear a sock liner together with wool hiking socks. Buy at REI | Buy on Amazon Bathing suit: For the hot springs on day 5 of the hike. Fleece jacket: For cool nights or sleeping (can double as a pillow, too). Waterproof rain jacket: For this trek I upgraded to a NorthFace Climatech technology waterproof jacket and I love it. It not only provided protection against the rain and cold, but the jacket material is very breathable so it didn't feel like a sauna inside when I used it. Highly recommended. Buy at REI | Buy on Amazon. Waterproof poncho: This long backpack poncho goes over you, your backpack and most of your legs so it really provides great protection from the rain. Waterproof pants: Pick up a pair of light pull-on biking waterproof/water resistant pants. They fold up into a small bag so they barely take up any room or weight in your backpack, but keep you quite dry when the clouds open up. Light down jackets: These can be stuffed into a tiny cinch bag and are so light that you can carry them with you in your day pack. We used these for warmth and comfort at night when temperatures drop. Dan loves his seamless ultra-light down jacket from Uniqlo. Flip-flops or river shoes: These are useful for the evenings when you want to get your feet a break from hiking shoes or you need to run to the outhouse in the middle of the night. Buy on Amazon (Women's) | Men's River Shoes Other Trekking Gear Sleeping Bag: This needs to be comfort rated to at least -10 C / 14 F. I rented my heavy duty down sleeping bag from the trekking agency, Quechuandes. If you are looking to buy a sleeping bag for your trek, one of the guys in our trekking group used this North Face 3-in-1 One Bag Sleeping Bag and found it warm enough and comfortable. Dan was looking at this Hyke & Byke Eolus 0 Degree sleeping bag before one of our friends lent him one to use. It was recommended and seemed like a good price. Refillable water bottle: Bring with you 1-2 refillable water bottles and/or a water bladder so that you always have at least one liter of water on you at all times. You'll be able to refill your bottles with clean water in the morning before you leave for the day and when you get to camp in the afternoon. If you really want to play it safe consider carrying with you a SteriPEN or sterilization drops. Trekking poles: We highly recommend using trekking poles for this trek, especially for the steep downhill sections. We'll usually share one walking stick set of two so each of us uses one stick. However, most people in our group used two poles each. This set of travel-friendly walking sticks fold up easily for luggage and assemble quickly when on the trail. Waterproof backpack cover: You never know when a rainstorm will hit, so it’s essential to keep a rain cover for your backpack close at hand. We also put electronics and other items in plastic or zip-loc bags inside the backpack as a extra protection for them. Quick-dry travel towel: To dry off after showers, and also after a swim. Hang it on the outside of your backpack in the morning so it dries quickly in the sun and air as you move. Silk sleep sack: To provide an extra layer of protection and warmth between you and the sleeping bag. Headlamp: None of the campsites have electricity so a headlamp is essential for finding your way to the toilet and to sort through your stuff at night in your tent. Silicone earplugs: A precaution in the case your camp has a snorer. Toiletries and Health Kit You'll have access to hot springs to bathe on day 5, but for the rest of your trek you'll receive a small bucket of hot water either first thing in the morning or in the evening to wash your face and other basics. Soap, toothbrush and toothpaste: The basics. Sunscreen: The higher the SPF, the better Sunglasses: Of course. Hand sanitizer: To be on the safe side, especially for lunch and snacks on the trail. Pack of tissues: You will be provided with a roll of toilet paper, but it’s always a good idea to carry a pack of tissues in case of messes, spills or emergencies. Duct tape: Very effective for hot spots and blisters on your feet. Also consider picking up some Compeed, which is magic when you already have blisters. Medical Kit (for emergencies): Band-Aids, anti-bacterial gel (for cuts), rehydration powders, ciprofloxacin/azithromycin (or another medication against stomach bacteria), Tylenol (anti-headache/aches), Immodium (or some sort of “stopper” if you get diarrhea), tea tree oil (great to apply to mosquito bites) Note: all these are easily and inexpensively purchased at local pharmacies, including in Huaraz from where you depart for the trek. Electricity and Charging Batteries None of the campsites have electricity. Prepare yourself for not having access to electricity during the trek. Some tips to handle this and further your battery power. Put your smartphone on airplane mode. There is no connectivity along the trek anyhow, so don't waste your phone’s battery power trying to find a network. We brought a solar powered power bank and used it to charge our smartphones, when necessary. Consider buying a phone case that doubles as an extra battery. Here’s an example for our iPhone X battery case. It provides another 1-1.5 charges. Take an extra camera battery or two. Don’t spent time reviewing your images on your phone or camera, as this will drain your battery power quickly. Conclusion: Huayhuash Trek, A Trek of a Lifetime Yep. For us, there's no way to oversell our experience on the Huayhuash Trek. During the trek, we felt the kind of deep decompression we feel whenever we head into the mountains on a long walk. The sense of accomplishment — individually and shared with a group of fun people — is profound. The memories, as we write this piece and flip through one stunning, astounding image after another, are still fresh. All that's left now is for you to give it a try. Any questions, ask them in the comments. And if you decide to do it, let us know how you get on.+++5
I recently wrote a post about surviving winter in Albany in which I concluded that frankly, spring doesn’t tend to bring much weather-related relief to the area, at least at first. The official first day of spring tends to fall somewhere in the month of March, which in a city like Albany, is really a formality at best — there is an abundance of snow about, with a smattering of mud, if you’re lucky, and it still feels quite distinctly wintery throughout the month. Still, we start to get more blue skies and the days linger a little longer, bringing hope that t-shirt weather and bright pops of colorful flora are right around the corner. March was quite a busy month for me as I buzzed around, eager to cure my cabin fever and ditch my puffy jacket. Here’s what I got up to, who came to see me, and when and where I got outta town. Ariana Grande Concert in Albany, NY I kicked off the month with a highly anticipated excursion — a press preview of the Historic Downtown Albany Food tour. Taste of Troy Food Tours began in 2016 in, you guessed it, neighboring Troy. The founder and tour guide Amy was intrigued by the capital city, as well, and it wasn’t long before she launched a version in Albany as well. I liked Amy immediately — she’s well traveled, passionate about cooking and food — and knowledgeable, too, as a registered nutritionist — and doing a great service to these two cities by creating this great experience for locals and tourists alike. Historic Downtown Albany Food Tour I’ve written often that I was quite impressed with the glow up of Albany’s food and drink scene since I moved away at seventeen. Albany has been New York’s capital for 320+ years, but it’s seriously having a moment right now. I love that there’s a tour that highlights that culinary and craft brewing boom! Our first sip and sample stop was at Albany Pump Station. This beautiful historic building is home to C.H. Evans Brewing Company, a family business that’s been brewing beer in Upstate New York since 1786. While I’m not a beer drinker, I loved learning about the history of a restaurant I’d eaten in before, as well as starting to dig into Amy’s culinary insights. Historic Downtown Albany Food TourHistoric Downtown Albany Food Tour In between bites, we hit the streets to glimpse at Albany architecture and hear a fresh perspective on local history and the culture of the Capital District. While I’ve eaten at every restaurant featured on this tour in the past, I’d never been to our next stop: the oldest church in Albany, and the second oldest church in all of New York State. We listened to Amy’s stories of the church’s famous congregants and epic scandals and admired the Tiffany stained glass while I sat in Theodore Roosevelt’s pew and marveled at how many times I’d walked by the building before, never even having an inkling what was inside. Historic Downtown Albany Food Tour Historic Downtown Albany Food Tour Historic Downtown Albany Food Tour Next, we made our way to Ama Cocina, one of my favorite Albany eateries. I really enjoyed hearing more about the crew who’d brought this gift of modern Mexican street food to Albany, as well as Amy’s off-the-beaten path recommendations for hole-in-the-wall Mexican restaurants throughout Albany. (I took a lot of notes this day, y’all.) Ama Cocina, Albany Ama Cocina, AlbanyAma Cocina, Albany The full Albany tour would then wind around to The Hollow Bar and Kitchen, a hip tapas spot, and Olde English Pub, a British tribute in the second oldest building in Albany. Our abbreviated tour preview however skipped straight to dessert —  Cider Belly‘s doughnuts at Stacks Espresso Bar. Yum! Historic Downtown Albany Food Tour with Taste of Troy The full version of the tour takes in five tastes, lasts around three and a half hours, and covers one and a half miles. This tour has an ambitious aim — to tell the story of Albany’s history and culture through food. And it does it really well. In fact, trying the Troy version is now firmly on my local to do list! Thinking of joining the Albany tour? Mark your calendars — they run Fridays from May through October. Gathering at Nine Pins Cider Luckily, my appetite for local food and beverage events is never sated — because that would be my first of three for the weekend! The next morning, I ran over and hit up the last hour of The Gathering, an annual celebration of all things craft cider, at Nine Pin. Gathering at Nine Pins Cider The event takes places on the production room floor with Farm Cideries from all over the state setting up cute little booths and pouring out samples into the adorable little Gathering of the Farm Cideries tasting glass included in the ticket. There are two separate three hour sessions and Laura and I were only able to squeeze in the final hour of the one that had tickets left — when we arrived, the crowd had clearly been taking full advantage of the unlimited cider and were quite merry! Out back, local food vendors were dishing out day drinking fuel, and a local radio station was blasting tunes. Honestly, Albany tends to go into a pretty major hibernation through the winter — this was the liveliest the city had felt in forever. Gathering at Nine Pins Cider The next The Gathering is on February 29th, 2020 — so nab a ticket now, because they actually do sell out. At $25, they are seriously a bargain — though expect to be tempted by the rare and unique ciders for purchase. Gathering at Nine Pins Cider After The Gathering wrapped, Laura and I headed up the road to the Winter Art Fest at Albany Distilling Co. The whole way we were unable to stop commenting on how the streets of the city suddenly seemed flooded with people! Props to our local craft beverage makers for planning these fun events that start pulling people out of their cozy homes and into the world when the weather’s still bleak. Winter Art Fest, Albany Distilling Co This event is actually a fundraiser for the Albany Center Gallery, another local institution I’m obsessed with. Clearly, I’m not alone as the AdCo Bar was absolutely packed! Even their outdoor space, one of my favorites in the city, was pretty bumping for a frigid day — surely the ice pong, ice shuffleboard, and ALB Vodka ice luge helped with that. Hot cocktails and space heaters helped keep things toasty. The second annual Winter Art Fest is right around the corner on February 22nd and tickets are just $20 — don’t miss it! Admission includes a welcome cocktail, DeFazio’s Pizza (my favorite in the Capital Region — drool) and unlimited creations at the s’mores bar. Winter Art Fest, Albany Distilling Co Winter Art Fest, Albany Distilling Co Sadly, Ian’s work schedule meant he tended to miss all the fun weekend events in the city when he came to visit, like he did for the following two days. Still, much of the time he came to visit we just hung out at home and enjoyed some quiet time together with my family. Sunday and Monday nights are tough times to visit Albany — many of our favorite restaurants are closed and things are pretty quiet. But while the weekends were clearly starting to liven up, my weekdays were still mostly filled with being at home with my mom and squeezing in work when I could, plus heading out for a workout class in the evenings. But one Tuesday I really spiced things up and worked out in the morning so that in the evening, I could attend a performance by one of my yoga teachers that night. Wild, right? Yes, I’m being silly — it actually was a really cool event! My girl Kenzie and I headed over to Schenectady for Burlesque at Proctors, a special event by It Came From Schenectady. The offbeat cinema fan club organizes quirky events like this one, where the cult classic movie Burlesque was screened before a live burlesque performance by Albany’s Pop Culture Provocateurs. It was interesting hearing about the art and history of burlesque from women who perform it today before the screening, which was made extra cozy by the couches and pillows carted in for the screening! A bar served up themed drinks which made the movie extra entertaining. And let’s face it, I’ll take any excuse to head to one of the Capital Region’s most beautiful historic theaters. I’m going to be totally honest — most of the films they screen are a little too avant-garde for me, though I’m actually gutted I won’t be able to attend the NY Dog Film Festival they’re putting on on February 1st to benefit the local animal charities. Upstate New Yorkers, don’t miss it! Boston Sea Rovers Dive Show The next weekend, I took my first trip of the month, a quick one night getaway across the state border to Massachusetts for Boston Sea Rovers. Actually held in Danvers, the two day dive show was a new one for me — I’ve been several times to Beneath the Sea in New Jersey, and was eager to check out another Northeast dive show. The idea to pitch a session about marketing to millennial divers had been percolating in my mind for a while, and I knew a familiarity with the event would only benefit me. While the show is significantly smaller than Beneath The Sea, Boston Sea Rovers is a historic organization that’s been around since the infancy of scuba diving and there’s a lot to love here. I woke up before sunrise to make the three hour drive and arrive in time to make the most of the weekend! Like most dive shows, this one was a flurry of exhibitors, short daytime seminars, longer workshops that go more in-depth on their topics, an ocean-inspired art exhibit, Discover Scuba sessions for new divers, and a film festival. I normally plan by days at dive shows around what sessions I want to attend — I’m a dive nerd so it can be hard to chose! I enjoyed sessions on Diving With Drones, Off the Beaten Track Diving with Women Divers Hall of Fame inductee Faith Ortins (even if I won’t go to some of the drysuit heavy destinations she featured, I loved being introduced to them by her!), an Acing The Shot photo editing deep dive (which left me dying to take a class with the speaker!), and a seriously fascinating look at Sunscreen and Coral Reefs. While they weren’t as informative as I’d hoped in sharing how to do the same, I also eagerly attended sessions on Wine Diving in Croatia and Shipwrecks of Martha’s Vineyard. Boston Sea Rovers Dive Show I also noted that there were lots of the same seminars as Beneath The Sea, which I also tried to attend but ended up unable to, so look closely if you’re in the northeast and considering which to attend. Between sessions, I browsed the exhibitors — it was a small hall but I made a few great connections. One was One Ocean Love Shop, a small eco-friendly ocean-inspired clothing and accessory brand who has now sponsored some of our gift bag items on recent Wander Women Retreats. I love that 5% of all One Ocean net profits are donated toward keeping the oceans clean! I also must say I was quite tickled by chatting to the Boston Malacological Club — where I learned what malacological means (it’s the study of mollusks, AKA shell enthusiasts, if you too are wondering.) The real highlight, however, was the Saturday night film festival. Honestly, I was blown away. The films and speakers were incredible, culminating in Silvia Earle taking the stage to a standing ovation — and a few tears from me. Watching the Diver of the Year accept their award made me think about what I could achieve someday in the diving industry, a humbling thought. As usual, I left a dive or travel show overflowing with inspiration. The next Boston Sea Rovers is March 7th and 8th, 2020 — it’s a must if you’re a scuba addict in the area! Even better, the organization is a non-profit and the full proceeds are used for scholarships, internships, in support of other non-profit organizations. Tickets are insanely affordable, just $60 for access to both days and the film festival, until February 1st when prices go up. The film festival totally does sell out too. I had to beg my way in! Staying on location would have been nice but I was trying to be reasonable considering I was barely working at the time, so I booked the cheapest non-crime-scene looking hotel I could find. It was actually lovely, and I relished in my first night truly alone in months and months. Boston Sea Rovers Dive Show Back in Albany, I didn’t have to wait long to get my next ocean fix. Brian Skerry, renown underwater photographer — who I’d just seen at Boston Sea Rovers — was speaking at the National Geographic Live! series at Proctors. My stepdad and I thought my mom might be up for it, so we crossed our fingers that the venue was truly handicap accessible and made our way to Schenectady, where I was delisted to find that I had finally picked a Proctors event in the grand main theater. I mentioned in my last Albany post that I was shocked by the lack of attendance at so many of these incredible local events —  mean truly, how often do you get to hear the captivating stories of a National Geographic legend who captured the first photos of a US president underwater in a nearly hundred year old theater? (In case you’re wondering, it was Obama, snorkeling in Hawaii, while he officially designated a national marine sanctuary.) Sadly my mom wasn’t really as into it as I’d expected, but it was still nice to break up her routine a bit. Proctor's Theatre, Albany That weekend, it was St. Patrick’s Day! Albany was once known for its super raucous celebration of the iconic holiday, but ever since things got a bit out of hand one year, it’s cooled considerably. By “got a bit out of hand,” I mean that federal riot charges were brought against local SUNY students after a wild party led to appliances going out windows and onto parked cars on the street, the local universities actually changed their schedules so that their students could go home to terrorize their own communities, and local police no longer turned a jovial eye to drinking green beer in parties that spilled out onto the streets. Ah, youth! So instead of kegs and eggs, I kicked off the day by nabbing green bagels from Bruegger’s so we could have a little breakfast celebration with my mom before heading to the parade —  you know how we feel about themed breakfasts! St. Patrick's Day in Albany, NYSt. Patrick's Day in Albany, NY St. Patrick's Day in Albany, NY I met up with a few high school friends and their families to watch the parade, which was fun to see up close. It had been ages since I’d had a night (or day!) out, and so it’s no surprise that when my friend Amanda’s bus arrived from New York, she, my friend Matt and I took advantage of the merriment and went dive bar hopping. St. Patrick's Day in Albany, NY St. Patrick's Day in Albany, NY The next day, we braved our hangovers for the real reason for Amanda’s visit — a day of skiing at Jiminy Peak. Amanda and I started joking that she had to visit once a quarter for a seasonal activity, and we actually stuck to it! Skiing at Jiminy Peak Jiminy Peak is one of several mountains within an easy day trip drive of Albany, this one right across the border in Hancock, Massachusetts. I hadn’t been here since high school and hadn’t been on skis in about a decade — so it was a big day for me! Luckily Amanda was happy to take it easy and I think it was the perfect reintroduction. I’m definitely a spring skier over a winter one — you won’t find me out on those slopes when it’s below freezing. But on this beautiful March day, I couldn’t stop marveling at how nice it was to be outside! I think that’s actually my favorite thing about skiing — it gets you outside in the sunshine at a time of year when you rarely get any vitamin D. Skiing at Jiminy Peak One very cool thing about Jiminy Peak in particular? It’s run on 100% renewable energy! How cool is that? Also, you can get crazy cheap lift tickets here, I’m talking like $39 on some weekdays, but we got the best deal of all — free! — thanks to my stepdad. Miller skis constantly all winter and spring and volunteers at Jiminy Peak with Stride Adaptive Sports, introducing skiing to those with disabilities. Skiing at Jiminy's PeakSkiing at Jiminy's Peak Skiing at Jiminy Peak On the way back from skiing we stopped at my local favorite, the Grafton Peace Pagoda. I’ve now visited it in almost every season and I’ve gotta tell you, it just gets prettier. I’m really crossing my fingers my Upstate New York retreat comes together here in October — get onto our mailing list to be the first to know as interest has been super high already! Grafton Peace Pagoda The next day Miller stayed home so Amanda and I could head to Bull Moose Club co-working space. I kept setting this goal of picking one of the Capital Region’s coworking space and committing to spending a minimum of one day a week there. But the truth is we never really got into a routine with my mom’s care — the second we’d feel settled like we could commit to some sort of of schedule, something would come shake up our world again. Anyway, I think this would have been my choice, if I had — I had the most incredibly productive day here gazing out at the New York State Capital. But let’s face it — they won me over from the moment they showed me the snack bar full of flavored La Croix, liquor from AdCo, and goldfish crackers. Swoon. Bull Moose Club Co-Working Space Amanda had gotten special permission to work remotely that day for an extremely important reason — the Ariana Grande tour kickoff at the Times Union Center (nope, no idea how Albany, New York landed that honor.) Not a single friend on my local rolodex was interested, so I bribed Amanda to stay an extra day in Albany with tickets. Again, I was really working part-time at best, so this was kind of a ridiculous splurge, but I was missing girl time and silliness so hard, it was worth it. I have to be honest, it wasn’t the best concert of my life. I’m kind of obsessed with the princesses of pop — I’ve seen Britney, Madonna, Gwen, etc. — and Ariana didn’t quite have their showmanship or energy, though she definitely has the pipes. Ariana Grande Concert in Albany, NYAriana Grande Concert in Albany, NY That week, another local activity caught my eye as something my mom might enjoy. At this point, we were at least half a year into her complete paralysis and the amount of activities she could enjoy with her advanced brain cancer were very limited. We fraught constantly over her quality of life and if she was peaceful, comfortable, and engaged. So anytime we thought of something we thought she would be capable of and enjoy, it was worth a shot. My mom had been a prolific flower arranger. She was so talented at it, and loved gifting friends elaborate arrangements. And so I couldn’t help but get excited about the Ikebana Flowering Arranging Workshop for Crafty Hour at The Arts Center of the Capital Region, where my mom once sat on the board and where I worked and took college classes all through high school. What could be more appropriate? Flowering Arranging Workshop Art Center of the Capital RegionFlowering Arranging Workshop Art Center of the Capital Region These adults-only social events are held once a month and involve a deep dive into a certain discipline — with a drink in hand. I called ahead to inquire about handicap accessibility and explain our situation and got a personal call back from the program director, who could not have been more lovely or helpful. My mom’s bestie Emily kept us laughing the whole time and while my mom didn’t seem particularly engaged with the whole evening, it still remains a special memory of us sharing one last time something she loved. Turns out ikebana is no joke — it’s a super methodical system of design which I really loved learning about, and which left me itching to visit Japan. On our way home, we decided to stick to our theme night and watch Lost in Translation (in which Scarlet Johansen takes an ikebana class) and grab a sushi dinner from Little Rice Ball in Troy, which I’d been meaning to try for ages. Good thing we did, because it permanently closed not long after! Though it was replaced by The Daisy, a cute taco spot by the team behind Caskade Kitchen in Cohoes — hopefully that one sticks the landing in the long run. Little Rice Ball in Troy, NYLittle Rice Ball in Troy, NY With my lack of travels this month I hit my workouts pretty hard, racking up 24 workout classes — a mix of aerial, yoga, spin and weight training but also some fun ones like a pole class on my way back from Saratoga, a yin yoga and massage workshop at Good Karma, and slow flow yoga class at an art gallery. Definitely the most notable, however, was the night I decided to try the monthly 5K running club at Nine Pin Cider. I hadn’t run a 5K in just about forever, however the warming weather and opportunity to try something new lured me the five minutes down the road from my house. I was actually pretty darn happy with my performance and left vowing to add more running into my routine. (Spoiler alert: I didn’t. A girl can only do so much!) Running Club at Nine Pin Cider That week, another one of my mom’s best friends and I went to a local production of Urinetown at Cohoes Music Hall — which was incredible. I’d seen the show, about a dystopian city in which the water supplies are so low the local government charges citizens to use the bathroom, years and years before and remembered loving it. I think the message of activism, the warning of depleted resources, and the dangers of a totalitarian government rang truer than ever. That weekend I was on my way out to Saratoga, but when I realized my sister and my stepdad were taking my mom to the annual Capital District Garden & Flower Show, I couldn’t pass up the chance for a family outing on my way out of town. There were some very creative floral and landscaping displays as well as some fun floral competitions we enjoyed admiring the entries to. The next edition is March 27-29, 2020, and tickets are just $12 in advance. Hudson Valley Art Center And then I rounded out the month with a relaxing, peaceful trip to nearby Saratoga Springs with Prada to meet Ian. Trip to Saratoga It was a pretty busy month, no? Being away only three nights the whole month meant I logged lots of time at home. While it’s true that we were never able to sink into anything I’d call a “routine,” I had at this point accepted my current reality. And while that reality was full of pain and uncertainty and distinctly lacking in freedom and flexibility, this post is proof of the love we poured into trying to make the best of it. And it felt like the first hints of spring were there to cheer us along. Hanging Out at Home in AlbanyHanging Out at Home in Albany+++5
WHERE TO EAT IN CABARETE Posted in Dominican Republic 4 comments Where we’re at: I’m recapping my 2019 travels, which included this trip to the Dominican Republic in February. Need a Caribbean break of your own? Nab one of the last two spots to our Wander Women Cabarete: Aerial Arts + Adventure retreat next month! 3-devide-lines There’s a lot to love about Cabarete. One of my top contenders? The bountiful array of fresh, healthy, and fun food available in everything from roadside luchadoras to stylish organic cafes. I put together this guide based on my first trip to Cabarete in 2019 and plan to update it with any new favorites I find on future trips — I think Cabarete is going to see a lot of me! Are you a Dominican Republic regular? Please, leave me your recommendations in the comments, too! Where to Eat in Cabarete Where to Eat in Cabarete Where to Eat in Cabarete Where to Eat in Cabarete Vagamundo Everyone loves Vagamundo, Cabarete’s popular cafe selling coffee, sweet and savory waffles, and smoothie bowls. Vagamundo Coffee & Waffles is a social enterprise that supports Niños de la Luz, a non-profit organization that works to home street kids in the Dominican Republic, Venezuela and South Sudan. Many of the staff making your insanely delicious waffles are young adults who have graduated from the home! Isn’t that amazing? Vagamundo Cafe Cabarete Vagamundo Cafe Cabarete Waffle at Vagamundo Cafe Cabarete Vagamundo has both indoor and outdoor seating and is, in my opinion, just about the cutest place in Cabarete to eat — which is perhaps how we ended up here so many times! That meant we got to try much of the menu, including some of the savory bowl specials they were running at the time. I also tried my first ever green smoothie bowl here — and loved it! Vagamundo is open Monday through Saturday from 7-5pm and on Sundays from 9-3pm. Waffle at Vagamundo Cafe Cabarete Vagamundo Cafe Cabarete Vagamundo Cafe CabareteSmoothie Bowl at Vagamundo Cafe CabareteVagamundo Cafe Cabarete Fresh Fresh If I had a genie with three wishes, I would seriously consider using one of them to have a Fresh Fresh equivalent in every destination I travel to. For now, I’ll have to settle for the ones in Cabarete and Sosua. I was in heaven when I flipped through the enormous menu here, which offers extensive healthy options for every meal of the day.  They offer everything from fresh twists on traditional breakfast dishes to smoothies, sandwiches, buddha bowls and salads. Fresh Fresh Cafe CabareteFresh Fresh Cafe CabareteFresh Fresh Cafe Cabarete And it’s not just the food that’s great. The colorful and cheery design is also a treat, with options for dining on the outdoor patio or the AC-cooled indoors (a relatively rare find in Cabarete). Keep an eye on their social media for occasional live music and pop up shops. Fresh Fresh is open from 7am-9:30pm, every day of the week. Fresh Fresh Cafe Cabarete Fresh Fresh Cafe Cabarete Fresh Fresh Cafe Cabarete La Mesa Taina You know the onsite restaurant at The Yoga Loft, Cabarete’s retreat center, is going to be good, right? La Mesa Taina serves up breakfast, lunch and dinner from its waterfront location on Kite Beach. They serve a diverse menu of sushi, tapas, gourmet burgers and more, with a twist — more than half the produce is supplied by Taino Organic Farm. I was delighted by the meals I had here during my research trip and a tour of the sister farm — and tubing down the river! — is sure to be a highlight of our own retreat here. La Mesa Taina is open from 8am-10:30PM ever day. The Yoga Loft Cabarete The Yoga Loft Cabarete Mojito Bar You simply can’t come to Cabarete without having a drink at the iconic Mojito Bar! In fact, it was our first stop — and we arrived starving, so we decided to make it a meal, too. While the place is quite popular for their sandwiches, I went with the local plate of the day, and I was not disappointed. A classic Dominican meal with my toes in the sand? It was the perfect way to start a trip. Mojito Bar is open from 11am-11pm every day except Friday and Saturday, when it’s open till midnight, and Tuesday, when they are closed. Mojito Bar CabareteMojito Bar Cabarete Roma Cocina & Pizzeria Italiana One of our trip, we were craving comfort food (let’s face it, it was after an evening of enjoying Cabarete’s lively nightlife scene!), we were seriously craving comfort food. A little research guided us to Roma Cocina, where Italian favorites are handmade with love. I couldn’t decide what I loved more — overdosing on carbs or the rustic chic setting of the restaurant. We’ll have to call it a tie. Roma Cocina is open from 9am-10:30pm every day except Sunday and Monday when it is open until 10pm, and Tuesday, when it is closed. Roma Cocina & Pizzeria Italiana in Cabarete, Dominican Republic Roma Cocina & Pizzeria Italiana in Cabarete, Dominican Republic Roma Cocina & Pizzeria Italiana in Cabarete, Dominican Republic . . . Like I said, Cabarete is a dang delicious place to eat! And I’ve already got a long list ready for my next trip — including Honey Company, Cabarete Coffee Company, Blue Moon, and more. Stay tuned! (And if you’re wondering what that sound is? It’s my stomach. Wanting to get back to Cabarete — right. now.) Where to Eat in Cabarete Where to Eat in Cabarete And that’s it from Cabarete — for now! Can’t wait to be back in just two weeks…+++5
There’s no two ways about it — winter in Upstate New York is brutal, especially if you’re not a winter sports aficionado. This was my first full winter in I think about eight years, and I found myself seeking out a lot of advice on how to survive it from those around me! Turns out it’s a topic a lot of Northeasters think about often, and so they had good insights. One of the most important lessons? Get away, whenever and wherever you can. I took two tropical trips throughout this stretch — one, a much-needed four day vacation to Mexico, the other, a five day retreat research trip to the Dominican Republic. The other two getaways, a weekend in Montreal for fun and a week in New York City for work, were pretty icy — but I can’t emphasize how great it felt to be traveling again, regardless of how sporadically. In those long gray months, little changes of scenery are so important. Winter in Albany, New YorkWinter in Albany, New York Winter in Albany, New YorkWinter in Albany, New YorkWinter smore's bar The rest of the time I was cozied up in Albany, New York, trying to stay warm. Ice Skating at the New York State Plaza I made some serious strides throughout this period in trying to embrace my reality in Albany. As they do for many Americans, the holidays kind of swallowed up the month of December — and were a welcome distraction from a very difficult time at home. Albany Distilling Co Tour Albany Distilling Co Tour Albany Distilling Co Tour All the festivities got me out of the house a bit, which was nice and kind of the wakeup call for me that Albany didn’t have to be the same place I’d left behind as a seventeen year old. I’d grown up and so had Albany, and there was a lot to explore, when I had the ability to do so. At the time that wasn’t very often, but it did give me hope. View of Albany, New York from the Corning Tower I’ve written before that my spontaneous New Year’s Eve trip to Merida, Mexico was really transformative — it helped me come back to Albany, which I hadn’t left in three months, with a new perspective and strong intentions for the future. Flying through Newark Girls Trip to Mexico New Year's Eve in Mexico Back in Albany, I really embraced that opportunity for a fresh start. Two things made this possible. First, upon my return we immediately doubled down on finding home health care for my mom, and finally succeeded in finding a home aide who would be by our side through it all. Of course that makes it sound simple, and it wasn’t, because nothing is simple when dealing with the treatment and care of someone you love who is terminally ill. I’ll probably go into more detail in my next roundup post, but the long and short of it is, I truly don’t know what I would have done without Angie. She was a rockstar. Second, my mom’s fiancé semi-retired at the end of December, allowing him to be home more often and for me to start working more hours and having a bit more freedom of movement again. New Year's Eve disco ball Like many do, I used the new year to restart or recommit to many healthy habits, including Kondo-ing my overflowing closet and getting rid of so many items that no longer sparked joy. While this was an ongoing project — one I need to restart once again — it really felt good. (Ugh, is this just an annual project for the rest of my life?) Kondo-ing my closet I also, of course, like the rest of the planet, got super jazzed about healthy eating in January. I’ve written before that I learned so much from Green Chef and think at this point I actually was starting to have a bit of fun with it. (Don’t laugh — I was a major beginner! This is not sponsored, but you try it out free using this link. ) Angie was a great cook, which meant I no longer felt responsible for every meal, and that made the ones I did create a lot more enjoyable. Learning to cook with Green Chef Of course, even with a home aide, even with Miller semi-retired, the majority of my time was spent with my mom. This was for many reasons — including that her physical care at this point truly did require two people as she could no longer even assist with standing to transfer in and out of her wheelchair. But mostly, the Avastin treatment she had begun, which doctors hopped would restore some of her speech, had really increased her awareness and engagement, which we tried to soak up every moment of. All that I am or hope to be, I owe to my angel mother.Cancer treatment giftBattling glioblastoma Every other week we went to the hospital for infusions, which became a new rhythm and routine as we learned what to pack and who our favorite nurses were and what corner of the infusion room was the quietest. Those visits could drive us crazy, but every once in a while there’d be someone celebrating their last treatment, or volunteers would drop off something sweet, and there’d just be this overwhelming reminder of how much kindness can be in the world. Cancer treatment giftSweet memories from a cancer infusion room We even — I shudder to say — tried to embrace the cold, getting out for walks or movies at The Spectrum whenever there was a manageable day. My mom’s tolerance for cold had really, really dropped and so we had to be pretty careful about when we went outside. One day we were watching TV and an ad for Olive Garden came on, which my mom really perked up at. She rarely spoke spontaneously, so I asked her if she wanted me to order lunch from there someday soon. We hadn’t had a meal outside the house since late summer, but something prompted me to ask if she wanted to go instead. She said yes, which I enthusiastically reported to her best friend, prompting a lunch date there the next week. You would have thought we were dining at a Michelin starred restaurant based on our enthusiasm. (Though, to be fair — breadsticks. I rest my case.) Honestly, I tear up thinking about it. Everyone who worked there was so patient and sweet, I don’t think they could have guessed how much that meant to us. Again, so much kindness. Battling glioblastomaBattling glioblastoma Our new arrangements meant I was trying to slot in time for self care, too — which was deeply necessary through the short, dark days of winter. If I learned one thing about myself from this experience, it’s that I must run almost exclusively on vitamin D! This time of the year, it starts getting dark around 4PM in Albany, and so it really can feel mentally like midnight at about 8PM. I found this super disorienting and tried to make evening plans a few times a week so the days didn’t all blend together. It really made a difference, even if those were as simple as a night at a friends’ house, doing face masks and hopping in the hot tub. Or even at home, carving out space for myself by going down to the guest bathroom in the basement and taking a bath at night. I sense a theme here — and it involves hot water. Did I mention Upstate New York is cold? Winter sunsets in Albany, New YorkWinter in the hot tub in Albany, New YorkSilver face mask Of course, most of my self care and me time in the past year came in the form of what I call movement therapy. I was deep in my aerial obsession at this point which I found also really fueled my weight training, too — I wanted to get my body as strong as possible to see what new things I could accomplish in the aerial cirque, dance, silks, lyra, and acro classes I was so enjoying. I believe exercise is essential to mental health year-round, but particularly crucial in the winter when it’s pretty easy to otherwise be quite sedentary. When my theme suggestion for our our aerial cirque troupe’s January performance was chosen, I was overjoyed. My obvious suggestion? Mermaids! Seriously, what would I have done without my Good Karma Studio family? Aerial Arts at Good Karma Studio in Albany, New YorkAerial Arts at Good Karma Studio in Albany, New YorkAerial Arts at Good Karma Studio in Albany, New York That said, the new year brought the impulse to try new things again, and so I checked out local ballet classes and adult gymnastics gym, too — while neither stuck, due to the somewhat rigorous schedules of each, my primary dedication to aerials, and that I was traveling sporadically again; I really enjoyed both enormously and would love to pursue each in the future someday. Aerial Arts at Good Karma Studio in Albany, New York Mid-January, I headed off to New York City, a professional trip for a yoga training and a drive-by of the New York Times Travel Show, where I connected with industry friends I hadn’t seen in ages. January Trip to New York City January Trip to New York City Back in Albany, the deepest stretch of winter had set in. And so it was time to put my next winter survival advice to the test: get out of the house, no matter how intense the impulse to hibernate. Enjoy museums, movies, cozy restaurants, and all the things you might forgo in the warmer months when you’re eager to be outside. Ice bars are actually a really big thing around here in the winter, when everyone is trying to figure out how the heck to get people out of their houses after the holidays. Most of them are up around Lake George or Saratoga, but I never seemed to be available on the rare beautiful days and could never motivate myself to make the drive when I was able to and the weather was gross. I did finally make it to one right in Albany, a winter fundraiser that also boasted a make your own s’mores and hot chocolate bar. This right here is the kind of winter fun I can get behind! Ice Bar in Albany, New York I as always kept an eye on the Discover Albany events calendar, and when a Museum After Dark tour at the Albany Institute of History and Art popped up, I leapt at the chance to check a visit back there off my list. I’d started working with Discover Albany in the New Year and so had even more motivation to explore. My mom’s friend Emily and I went together and were pretty entertained to be the youngest people there by decades, ha. Honestly, I think the youths of Albany are missing out big time! (And yes, I realize that statement makes me sound approximately one thousand years old.) Very often in the last year I found myself at really fascinating cultural events in the area only to wonder, where is everyone? Sadly, it’s not just Albany. Albany Institute of History & Art One thing that never seems to go out of style is restaurant hopping, and I checked out several new ones in January. I’d long been eager to check out the monthly make-your-own-mimosa brunches at Savoy Taproom, and one weekend when Ian was in town we met my friend Kristin’s parents Marc and Laura there. (I’m sensing another theme, and it’s build-your-own snack bars…) They also have a bloody mary version, for tomato juice fans. Savoy Taproom, Albany, New York Ian and I also hit up The Shop, a cute Troy spot with a great brunch menu. If there’s one area of the Capital Region that I still haven’t personally tapped to its potential, it’s Troy. What can I say, I was a loyal Albany girl! The Shop, Troy, New York The Shop, Troy, New York Before I knew it, it was February and I was off on my next trip to the Dominican Republic. Now by the time this trip rolled around I was quite desperate for some sun, sand and sea. I think February can be one of the toughest months of the year in the northeast. The excitement of the holidays passed by in December, the New Year’s glow up resolutions have settled into a routine, and it’s still ages till spring. Amanda, who invited me on the trip, told me she always looks for a cheap flight in February to literally anywhere warm, which is how she’d landed on Dominican Republic. Lucky for me she did! Trip to Cabarete, Dominican Republic Trip to Cabarete, Dominican Republic Trip to Cabarete, Dominican Republic The one downside to reintroducing travel back into my life again while simultaneously trying to build some semblance of a new life in Albany was missing out on things back home — aerial rehearsals, special events, etc. While I was in the Dominican Republic I missed a big event for Unity House, a local charity of which my mom was the president of the board, and that was hard to swallow. I always felt torn between two worlds. But, I did cut the trip a day shorter than originally planned in order to be back for Valentine’s Day, which was a great internal compromise for my anxiety. My mom used to make Valentine’s Day so special for us as kids, we always thought it was the most fun holiday! We’d spend ages making elaborate handmade valentines for every kid in our class, then come downstairs that morning to the find the dining room decked out like cupid had thrown up all over, with valentines to and from each of us to each other — including the dog. Valentine's Day BrunchValentine's Day Brunch Valentine's Day Brunch It totally bred a deep love of Valentine’s Day in me, a member of a generation who loves to hate it. When I moved to Brooklyn I threw massive Valentine’s Day parties every year, complete with pink cocktails and carefully curated love pop playlists (pre-Spotify, natch) and carried the tradition on in Thailand, where my friends were keen for any excuse to meet a dress code challenge. It was always a blast — no cringe-y, fake romantic overpriced meals. Just fun! Anyway, we wanted to shower my mom with all the magic she’d created for us as kids, and my sister went all out creating an elaborate Valentine’s Day breakfast that would put even Martha Stewart to shame. Valentine's Day BrunchValentine's Day BrunchValentine's Day Brunch Valentine's Day Brunch Ian and I agreed on no gifts, so instead I bought myself a cookie cake at the mall — only, of course, to arrive home to a thoughtful gift sent via mail from Ian. It was a good day — a reminder of how truly lucky we were to grow up the way we did, and how our family has always come together to unite over going WAY over the top for any and every holiday. Valentine's Day BrunchValentine's Day Brunch A few days later, I got another very sweet treat — my Thailand bestie Janine, straight off the plane from Bangkok and then the train from New York. It was her second trip to see me in Albany and I was both eternally grateful and obscenely excited for her visit. We’d talked about me meeting her down in New York, but I just couldn’t get away again so soon — so I was determined to make her time in Albany extra special. 3Fish Cafe, Albany, New York Of course, what could be more thrilling to a resident of Thailand than visiting a pagoda in Upstate New York? Not really a hundred percent sure where my head was with that one, ha, but it was fun to see the Grafton Peace Pagoda all covered in snow. It’s one of my favorite hidden gems of the area, and it’s a beautiful drive to get there. We also whipped by Grafton State Park to grab a photo for an Instagram campaign, where Janine declared she did not have the clothes for any length of more than five minutes spent outdoors the rest of the trip. Totally fair. Winter in Grafton State ParkWinter in Grafton State Park Grafton Peace Pagoda, Upstate New York Grafton Peace Pagoda, Upstate New York Many of you know Janine as the owner of my favorite juice bar in Thailand, Living Juices! We of course had to do extensive market research while she was in the area, despite Janine’s protests that it was too cold for acai bowls. We visited Fruit Loop, which I liked, Bare, which I loved, and Raw, which isn’t my favorite bowl in the area (but does serve other fun healthy stuff.) Fruit Loop, Albany, New YorkRaw, Albany, New York It was hard to say goodbye to Janine (like, really hard), but a new Albany event to look forward to eased the pain. My mom was a prolific floral arranger, and loved gifting her lucky friends with elaborate arrangements. And so when I saw an ad for Cathedral in Bloom, a flower show fundraiser in an Albany church, I knew we had to go. Cathedral in Bloom, Albany, New YorkCathedral in Bloom, Albany, New York This is a really happy memory. We ran into family friends we hadn’t seen in a while, laughed with Emily, and again encountered such kindness — when we went to pay for the tickets, the cashier said warmly to my mom, “a man who came in earlier paid for an extra ticket and asked us to pass it on to someone who needed a smile — I hope you find one here.” It really strikes me, looking back, how the smallest comments or acts of compassion could change our day and stick with me months and months later. It truly inspires me to be more proactive in putting that same kind of love out into the world for others who might be needing it right now. Cathedral in Bloom, Albany, New YorkCathedral in Bloom, Albany, New York My last local adventure of the winter was — you guessed it — another Discover Albany events calendar find. Guys, if you don’t follow your local tourism board on social media or subscribe to their newsletters, you really should! There’s probably someone in your area working hard to tell you about all the cool things happening nearby. In this case, it was Yoga Care’s pop up classes around the Capital Region. This one was a slow flow class held at the SUNY Art Gallery, which was a double win as I’d never been there before. Still eager to make local friends, I invited someone I’d met at a pop-up Buti Yoga class at The Hot Yoga Spot, who had started Buti classes at a studio I’d never been to called Om Shanti. As a fellow new teacher, we’d bonded over our love of the mat and our nerves about leading classes — and I was super stoked to have finally wrangled a new friend date in town (it had only taken me five months, ha!) Yoga Care, Albany, New YorkYoga Care, Albany, New York I wrapped up the month with a visit to Ian in hipster Montreal, a four hour drive straight north of Albany. It was a much needed weekend for us — and bonus, it made Albany feel positively balmy in comparison. Montreal in the WinterMontreal in the Winter The great paradox of starting to travel again in 2019 meant that my time at home felt ever more frantic and busy as I tried to juggle my time with my mom, my return to work, and some semblance of a personal life. I often felt like I had a million plates spinning in the air, though admittedly that was a welcome change from the feelings of despair I’d been coping with pre-New Year. I can’t overstate how important these little steps, however ginger, to reintroduce work and travel back into my life were. It’s true: I am NOT a winter girl. I struggle with the cold, with the darkness, with the isolation. But by being super proactive about leaning into the cozy at home, getting involved in my community out in the world, and thawing out with a few warm weather getaways, I survived. And so I tried to embrace the chaos, moving into spring. CapitalWalls Albany New York CapitalWalls Albany New York While Albany is a four season city and I love that about it, it is kind of hilarious trying to break it into four even blocks of fall, winter, spring, and summer — because my “spring” post is going to contain a lot of snow. Oh well. Stay tuned! There’s a lot to love about Cabarete. One of my top contenders? The bountiful array of fresh, healthy, and fun food available in everything from roadside luchadoras to stylish organic cafes.+++5 I put together this guide based on my first trip to Cabarete in 2019 and plan to update it with any new favorites I find on future trips — I think Cabarete is going to see a lot of me! Are you a Dominican Republic regular? Please, leave me your recommendations in the comments, too! Where to Eat in Cabarete Where to Eat in Cabarete Where to Eat in Cabarete Where to Eat in Cabarete Vagamundo Everyone loves Vagamundo, Cabarete’s popular cafe selling coffee, sweet and savory waffles, and smoothie bowls. Vagamundo Coffee & Waffles is a social enterprise that supports Niños de la Luz, a non-profit organization that works to home street kids in the Dominican Republic, Venezuela and South Sudan. Many of the staff making your insanely delicious waffles are young adults who have graduated from the home! Isn’t that amazing? Vagamundo Cafe Cabarete Vagamundo Cafe Cabarete Waffle at Vagamundo Cafe Cabarete Vagamundo has both indoor and outdoor seating and is, in my opinion, just about the cutest place in Cabarete to eat — which is perhaps how we ended up here so many times! That meant we got to try much of the menu, including some of the savory bowl specials they were running at the time. I also tried my first ever green smoothie bowl here — and loved it! Vagamundo is open Monday through Saturday from 7-5pm and on Sundays from 9-3pm. Waffle at Vagamundo Cafe Cabarete Vagamundo Cafe Cabarete Vagamundo Cafe CabareteSmoothie Bowl at Vagamundo Cafe CabareteVagamundo Cafe Cabarete Fresh Fresh If I had a genie with three wishes, I would seriously consider using one of them to have a Fresh Fresh equivalent in every destination I travel to. For now, I’ll have to settle for the ones in Cabarete and Sosua. I was in heaven when I flipped through the enormous menu here, which offers extensive healthy options for every meal of the day.  They offer everything from fresh twists on traditional breakfast dishes to smoothies, sandwiches, buddha bowls and salads. Fresh Fresh Cafe CabareteFresh Fresh Cafe CabareteFresh Fresh Cafe Cabarete And it’s not just the food that’s great. The colorful and cheery design is also a treat, with options for dining on the outdoor patio or the AC-cooled indoors (a relatively rare find in Cabarete). Keep an eye on their social media for occasional live music and pop up shops. Fresh Fresh is open from 7am-9:30pm, every day of the week. Fresh Fresh Cafe Cabarete Fresh Fresh Cafe Cabarete Fresh Fresh Cafe Cabarete La Mesa Taina You know the onsite restaurant at The Yoga Loft, Cabarete’s retreat center, is going to be good, right? La Mesa Taina serves up breakfast, lunch and dinner from its waterfront location on Kite Beach. They serve a diverse menu of sushi, tapas, gourmet burgers and more, with a twist — more than half the produce is supplied by Taino Organic Farm. I was delighted by the meals I had here during my research trip and a tour of the sister farm — and tubing down the river! — is sure to be a highlight of our own retreat here. La Mesa Taina is open from 8am-10:30PM ever day. The Yoga Loft Cabarete The Yoga Loft Cabarete Mojito Bar You simply can’t come to Cabarete without having a drink at the iconic Mojito Bar! In fact, it was our first stop — and we arrived starving, so we decided to make it a meal, too. While the place is quite popular for their sandwiches, I went with the local plate of the day, and I was not disappointed. A classic Dominican meal with my toes in the sand? It was the perfect way to start a trip. Mojito Bar is open from 11am-11pm every day except Friday and Saturday, when it’s open till midnight, and Tuesday, when they are closed. Mojito Bar CabareteMojito Bar Cabarete Roma Cocina & Pizzeria Italiana One of our trip, we were craving comfort food (let’s face it, it was after an evening of enjoying Cabarete’s lively nightlife scene!), we were seriously craving comfort food. A little research guided us to Roma Cocina, where Italian favorites are handmade with love. I couldn’t decide what I loved more — overdosing on carbs or the rustic chic setting of the restaurant. We’ll have to call it a tie. Roma Cocina is open from 9am-10:30pm every day except Sunday and Monday when it is open until 10pm, and Tuesday, when it is closed. Roma Cocina & Pizzeria Italiana in Cabarete, Dominican Republic Roma Cocina & Pizzeria Italiana in Cabarete, Dominican Republic Roma Cocina & Pizzeria Italiana in Cabarete, Dominican Republic . . . Like I said, Cabarete is a dang delicious place to eat! And I’ve already got a long list ready for my next trip — including Honey Company, Cabarete Coffee Company, Blue Moon, and more. Stay tuned! (And if you’re wondering what that sound is? It’s my stomach. Wanting to get back to Cabarete — right. now.) Where to Eat in Cabarete Where to Eat in Cabarete And that’s it from Cabarete — for now! Can’t wait to be back in just two weeks…+++5
A HIPSTER WINTER WEEKEND IN MONTREAL Posted in Canada 4 comments Where we’re at: I’m recapping my 2019 travels, which included this weekend in Montreal in February. As many of you know, Ian and I lovingly parted ways this summer, which can make our final trips together somewhat difficult to recap. Still, I would hate to ever forget these special adventures, so here they are. 3-devide-lines Ah, Montreal, the classic winter getaway from Upstate New York — somewhere even more frigid! I’m joking, of course. Almost anyone I told I was taking a late February trip there to raised an eyebrow, and I didn’t blame then. In Montreal, February’s average high-temperature is 26.2°F (-3.2°C, for my neighbors to the north), and the average low temperature is 10°F (-12.2°C). As two island beach bums who’d met and spent the bulk of our relationship on a tropical island in Thailand, Ian and I were both very skeptical of humanity’s ability to function at these temperatures. But alas, Ian, a Canadian, had taken a job in Montreal in the new year to be as close to Albany as possible, and the universe did not reply to either of our requests to give winter a pass, just that once. Leche Desserts, MontrealLeche Desserts, Montreal Ian’s job at a hip, high-end French restaurant meant that he worked brutal hours, and often clocked out on Saturday night around 2am only to get right in a rental car and drive the four hours down to Albany to crawl into bed Sunday morning as I crawled out of it, and then spend one night together before he returned for his shift Monday night. It was a brutal schedule and I was eager to relieve him of it for a weekend by being the one to make the drive. I arrived in Montreal late Saturday night and we woke up together on Sunday excited to explore the city, starting with Ian’s cute new neighborhood of St. Henri. This area is tres chic, as the kids in Montreal say — okay, let’s be honest, I have no idea what the kids these days nor people who speak French are saying. But St. Henri is super cool for sure. Just trust me. Anyway, while we’d excitedly discussed our weekend plans, I continually threw out suggestions that seemed like winter-themed fun, such as ice skating — suggestions that would leave Ian suggesting that maybe I didn’t really understand what 10°F actually felt like. He was right. Leche Desserts, Montreal Leche Desserts, Montreal Our few-block walk to our chosen brunch spot of Arthurs was pretty treacherous, my first taste of Montreal’s notorious icy sidewalk issue. Seriously, just google it — the results are hilarious but also kind of terrifying. The weekend I was there alone, we saw on the news that nine people had been sent to the ER for concussions after falls on the ice! Anyway, we very carefully laughed and makeshift skated our way to the trendy Jewish deli, only to find a long wait time. No worries — we headed over to Leche, a cozy donut spot, where we warmed up with coffee and tea and waited for our table. Who doesn’t love a progressive brunch, and listening to their boyfriend flex his high school French? Arthurs Nosh Bar Montreal By then, I’d mentally crossed ice skating and street art tours and all my other outdoor ideas firmly off our list for the day. (Actually, I had originally booked us a Montreal ice wine tour that I was insanely excited about, but it was cancelled the week prior.) How to keep warm and amused on a sub-arctic Sunday in Montreal? Bowing at Darling Bowl! Darling Bowling, MontrealDarling Bowling, Montreal Ian and I had gotten bizarrely into bowling, and I told him I wanted to go to the Canadian equivalent of The Gutter in Brooklyn. He totally delivered! The place was super hipster and cute and we basically had it to ourselves. Darling Bowling, Montreal Darling Bowling, Montreal Naturally, I crushed Ian at our three game tournament, topping out at a score of 171, my highest ever. Huzzah! Winner got a foot massage, though my request for an on-demand version was denied. Darling Bowling, Montreal Darling Bowling, Montreal While Darling is aesthetically very hip inside, the onsite bar and grill is your standard bowling fare — which can be a pretty exciting prospect, depending on your mood. (Sometimes, a girl just needs a salted pretzel and cheese dip.) Darling Bowling, Montreal The next morning, Ian was eager to cast his vote in the age old rivalry between New York and Montreal bagel connoisseurs. His internet research led us to St. Viateur Bagel, where, I’m happy to say that I was able to remain faithfully loyal to my home state’s proudest carb contribution to the planet. Still, it was a great breakfast spot. St. Viateur Bagel, Montreal After breakfast came our big treat of the trip. Ian and I have always been big spa fans, which was an easy-to-feed addition living in Southeast Asia. In North America, not so much — so we were absolutely thrilled for an afternoon at Montreal’s uber-hip Espace Nomade Spa. I was swooning from the moment we walked in. Nomade combines a charming boutique, a beautiful juice bar and a soothing spa all wrapped up in one colorful package. Spa Espace Nomad MontrealSpa Espace Nomad Montreal Spa Espace Nomad Montreal After a yummy juice and salad and a browse around the boutique, we headed downstairs into the cozy treatment room for a couple’s massage. I am not sure what heaven looks like but after getting on a heated massage table in the midst of a Canadian winter, I have some idea of what it feels like. Bliss! And my fellow spa addicts, listen up — they have some awesome promotions for students, mid-week visits, and more. Spa Espace Nomad MontrealSpa Espace Nomad Montreal Spa Espace Nomad MontrealSpa Espace Nomad MontrealSpa Espace Nomad Montreal Spa Espace Nomad Montreal That night, we headed out for one more dinner in St. Henri, this time to the chic and widely celebrated pizza place Elena. Can I tell you how much I loved showing up in a city and having an amazing trip planned for me, no research necessary? Major prayer hand emojis to Ian for finding all of these spots for us. Anyway, it was a particularly brutally cold night and we briefly debated driving the few blocks to the restaurant but, concerned about parking, decided to walk instead — a decision that lead to my biggest tantrum of 2019. But I think that cold-induced trauma is a story for a roundup post! Elena MontrealElena Montreal Elena Montreal Elena is definitely a Montreal must for anyone who loves good pizza and great design — I loved it here. It was the perfect end to a far-too-short trip. This was my first trip to Montreal since I spent a New Year’s Eve there when I was 19, and so clearly it was time for a refresher. I’d never really though much about Montreal, but Ian definitely introduced it to a fun, young, hipster side of it that I didn’t know existed. With Manitoba and Newfoundland having stolen my heart as an adult, it was high time Quebec did the same. Elena Montreal My next trip to Montreal, when the weather was much warmer, showed me an entirely different side of the city. Stay tuned for that post coming up soon. Have you been to Montreal? Were you crazy enough to go in the winter, like me?+++5
If there’s one thing I’m sure my longterm readers won’t be surprised by, it’s that there was no way I was going to Mexico and not getting my bum to the beach. The college crew I was in Merida with packed up on New Year’s Day and headed out to Isla Holbox, but I hung back and headed out to stay with my friend Rachel, who had recently moved to the outskirts of Merida. Hippie in Heels in Merida, MexicoHippie in Heels in Merida, Mexico Many of you knew Rachel as Hippie in Heels, and were among those shocked and heartbroken by her sudden passing this year. To me, Rachel was a close friend and business confidant, and still I find myself struck by the fact that I don’t wake up to her long voice notes, still I find myself paralyzed when a song that makes me think of her comes on, still I find myself so grateful for the memories of our time together, especially in that last year. Rachel and her fiance Ben had just spent the holidays hosting family for a long stretch, but still they warmly opened their home in Merida to me, insisting that I stay for as long as I wanted. At the time even a couple days away from home was a stretch for me, but how I wished I could have taken them up on it. It felt so good just to lounge around the house, watch Netflix, play with their dogs, do face masks, and laugh. Face Masks Face Masks Rachel was, like me, a beach bum. The closest beach to her house on the outskirts north of Merida was Progreso, and so that’s of course where we made our way. There were more naturally beautiful, untouched beaches further afield, she assured me — but this one had beach bars with sun-loungers and guacamole. Sorted. Progreso, Mexico Travel Blog Post Sand in Progreso, Mexico Boats on the beach in Progreso, Mexico We drove up and headed straight to El HaGuay Beach Bar, which Rachel reported to be the only slightly Instagram-able spot within miles, ha. Progreso is no Tulum — it’s actually primarily a port town, known for having the longest pier in the world at four miles long, with regular cruise ship dockings. It’s worth checking online to see if there will be any around, and avoiding weekends, if you have some flexibility in your schedule. Our visit was a peaceful one. We parked it at El HaGuay for hours, swapping between gossiping at the pool’s swim-up bar and having heart-to-hearts on the beach. I’ll remember the conversations we had that day for the rest of my life. Window in Progreso, MexicoBoats on the beach in Progreso, Mexico El HaGuay Beach Bar in Progreso, MexicoEl HaGuay Beach Bar in Progreso, MexicoHippie in Heels in Progreso, Mexico We also, of course, cooled off in the ocean. While the north coast of the Yucatan is not known for crystal clear waters the way the eastern beaches of Quintana Roo are — think Cancun, Cozumel, Playa del Carmen, and all those dreamy destinations — it was my first time in the ocean in months and months, and I couldn’t have been more grateful. Boats on the beach in Progreso, Mexico Window in Progreso, Mexico Boats on the beach in Progreso, Mexico Alex in Wanderland in Progreso, Mexico El HaGuay, Progreso, Mexico Eventually we got a little restless and decided to go for a stroll along the malecón. The coast of Progreso is strewn with thatch-roof palapas, simple seafood restaurants, and little souvenir shops. I’d never been easier to please — I was just happy to stroll around in the sun, spending quality time with a close friend and snapping photos of everything colorful and cute. Beach palapas in Progreso, MexicoCoconut water stand in Progreso, MexicoHanging Shells in Progreso, Mexico Thatch roof beach bar in Progreso, Mexico Beach restaurant in Progreso, Mexico Octopus mural in Progreso, MexicoTourist info stand in Progreso, MexicoBeach day in Progreso, Mexico Hanging Shells in Progreso, Mexico Eventually, we managed to drag ourselves from the beach. We considered driving down to the coast to take in some of the area’s famous flamingos or pink salt flats — lesser known than the pink lakes of Las Coloradas, but still, well, pink. Rachel had her own wheels, which made exploration easy, but it wasn’t the best time of year to see the birds, and I hadn’t packed my drone, which I knew would have been the best way to capture the salt flats. Driving to Progreso, Mexico Progreso, Mexico Travel BlogProgreso, Mexico Travel BlogProgreso, Mexico Travel Blog Instead, we decided to follow a mystery launched on our Google Maps, when we saw a cenote labeled as suspiciously nearby. Rachel was skeptical — how could there be a cenote so close to the shore and to town? Most surrounding Merida were in rural areas, a huge haul from humanity. We decided to investigate, and found ourselves at Reserva Ecologica El Corchito. A bored ticket seller explained that we’d have to take a short included boat ride across the bay, where we’d find a mangrove area home to three open cenotes. We shrugged and paid our 35 pesos (less than $2USD) and walked down the dock to our awaiting vessel. Boat ride to Reserva Ecologica El Corchito, Progreso, Mexico When we disembarked in the mangroves we were greeted by scampering bands of what appeared to be highly domesticated raccoons and coatis, as well as some exotic looking birds. Reserva Ecologica El Corchito, Progreso, Mexico Reserva Ecologica El Corchito, Progreso, Mexico Hammocks at Reserva Ecologica El Corchito, Progreso, MexicoReserva Ecologica El Corchito, Progreso, MexicoCoatis at Reserva Ecologica El Corchito, Progreso, Mexico Cenotes at Reserva Ecologica El Corchito, Progreso, Mexico We also found a lot of other people — mostly domestic tourists splashing around with their kids, which was pretty cute to see. That said, we were there at the very end of the day, and we weren’t mad when the crowds thinned enormously at the very end, which gave us some time to enjoy the natural beauty of the place on our own, too. Reserva Ecologica El Corchito, Progreso, MexicoReserva Ecologica El Corchito, Progreso, MexicoHammocks at Reserva Ecologica El Corchito, Progreso, Mexico Cenotes at Reserva Ecologica El Corchito, Progreso, Mexico While the open air swimming holes aren’t what you traditionally think of when you think “cenote” — that’s more what I visited earlier in the trip on another little adventure outside Merida — they were beautiful and for the price we paid and the convenience of the location, well worth a visit if you’re in Progreso. Is Progreso itself worth a visit? Personally, I can’t fathom a trip to Mexico without a beach day involved, so for me I say a big fat yes. And while we were lucky enough to have our own ride, it’s super easy to reach by local bus and arrange an affordable tour upon arrival too, like these bloggers did. Cenotes at Reserva Ecologica El Corchito, Progreso, Mexico Boat Ride to Reserva Ecologica El Corchito, Progreso, Mexico Merida is surrounded by stunning cenotes, ancient archeological sites, and of course, beaches like this one within day trips’ reach. While I don’t think Merida is going to go down as one of my favorite places in Mexico, I am truly eternally grateful to this trip for so many reasons — mostly because of the people I spent it with. Damn, do I miss Rachel. I am also grateful for the ways this trip reminded me of me, and showed me how important reintroducing travel into my life was to my mental health. I could no longer take the month-long, open-ended backpacking trips to the world’s most exotic destinations like I’d been spoiled by. But maybe I could start to take spontaneous, short little adventures to places that were a little bit closer to home. And that thought started to bring me back to life.+++5
I started 2019 with a goal: reintroducing travel, a new kind of travel, back into my life. We’d finally found a reliable home aide at the start of January, and my sister’s campaign job had ended, meaning she’d be back in Albany more. I knew I couldn’t go for very long or for very far, but I could try to keep the flame of my wanderlust alive. When my sister came home for a week following the inauguration in January, I dreamed of flying somewhere warm and exotic. Somewhere on my bucket list. Somewhere that might make this, my one blog post from that whole month, a little more scintillating. But in the end I chose something close to home — a week in beautiful but blustery New York City. New York City SkylineJanuary in New York CityJanuary in New York City Why? Several reasons. First of all, it was the longest I’d be away from my mom in over five months. Being seperated gave me a certain sense of anxiety, and feeling like I could get home in an emergency helped with that. Second of all, there were two things I was extremely eager to attend: a Buti Bands + Sculpt fitness training, and the New York Times Travel Show. Finally, the city is quite literally crawling with some of my best friends in the world, and I was ready to be hugged, big time. My friends Ashlee and J, who travel often for work (that’s an understatement!) were generous enough to lend me their empty apartment for the weekend, which was close enough for me to walk to my training. I arrived late at night, buzzing with the energy of my old home and forever favorite city. Midtown Manhattan Midtown Manhattan The next morning I arrived at B MVMNT filled with anticipation. I had been a Buti Yoga fan for years and years, and was absolutely thrilled when the brand opened their own Soho HQ over the summer while I’d been completing my 200 hour yoga teacher training nearby at Y7 Studio. I’d often finish a long hard day of training with three hours of vinyasa in it, and hustle over to B MVMNT to take a Buti class! (Sadly, the studio closed late in 2019, though classes are still available throughout the city.) While in Albany, I’d started streaming Buti classes via their app when it was hard to get out of the house, and was able to try their new bands series this way. I fell in love with it and when I saw the training pop up during a Black Friday sale, I spontaneously snapped it up (along with a Buti yoga training, which I’d planned to complete that April). Buti Yoga B MVMNT NYCButi Yoga Training at B MVMNT NYCButi Yoga Training at B MVMNT NYC I was doing things a little out of order, taking Buti Bands + Sculpt before Buti Yoga, but I was assured that since I had my 200 hour yoga teacher training under my belt, it would be no issue. I showed up bracing myself for two back-to-back twelve hour days, totally immersing myself in this new fitness discipline I’d grown to love, and ideally recapturing some sense of confidence in teaching — something that had been largely disrupted by my mom’s cancer diagnosis just a week after my 200HR YTT graduation. Unfortunately, the weekend was… confusing. Let’s start with the good. The master classes that started each day were phenomenal. The master trainer who led our session is one of the best Buti teachers I’ve taken a class with and I was in awe of her sequencing and energy, and so thrilled to learn from her. Buti Yoga Training at B MVMNT NYC And that’s where the trouble began, unfortunately. I’ve hesitated to write anything negative about this training publicly because like many fitness modalities, Buti is a very close-knit world that it can feel intimidating to give anything but gushing feedback on. But, well, you guys know me — I’m pretty much physically incapable of sugarcoating anything. Out of the scheduled twenty hours of training, we completed twelve of them — which we absolutely sprinted through. The instructor seemed frustrated when I slowed her down for clarifications, but I figured, I paid a lot for this training, I’m not moving on from this until I understand it! I was also the only one in the class who was not yet Buti certified, which the instructor seemed visibly annoyed by (though again, even on the sales page for the training, it stated the only pre-requisite was a 200 hour certification, which I had.) I do believe the issue was more with the vibe this particular master trainer had that particular weekend, rather than an issue with the training structure or material itself. Buti Yoga Training at B MVMNT NYC Buti Yoga Training at B MVMNT NYC So, I left the training feeling a bit discouraged, and not having gotten the exact experience I had hoped for. My goal was to get my confidence back to start teaching again, and I think the opposite happened. But I was determined not to let it derail my week. In fact, I hadn’t been to New York since I’d discovered my newfound obsession with aerial arts, and while my body was in pieces from the training (we did hours of class and demos!), I couldn’t wait to dive into the many, many studios that New York is blessed with! Om Factory NYCBody and Pole NYC IncrediPOLE, Brooklyn, New York Are you also in love with or intrigued by aerials, and in or heading to New York? Save these recommendations! By the way, if you want to try loads of them, I recommend ClassPass — even though I was only in the city for a week, I re-enrolled for a month, knowing I’d save money over doing daily drop-ins. Here are the studios I tried and tested: • Om Factory: This is the OG aerial yoga studio in New York, and I tried both a lyra class at their Union Square location and an aerial barre class at a now-closed location and really enjoyed them both. The vibe is colorful and homey, and it reminds me of my Albany studio Good Karma in many ways. • Body + Pole: This is very hardcore aerial and pole powerhouse in the Fashion District. The classes are incredibly organized and structured, and the students goal-focused. It definitely can feel intimidating at first, but it’s a truly excellent studio where I’d be a regular if I could. • Incredipole: This Brooklyn studio is blast — clearly, it’s primarily pole focused, but there are sometimes lyra or other classes on the schedule. The class I took here totally sparked my newfound interest in pole, and led me to drive to the closest studio to Albany, nearly an hour away, a few times. I would love to study pole more often someday when it’s accessible to me, and this funky studio would be a great place to start! • The Muse + The Muse Gowanus: The Muse is a very circus-based school with two different locations in Brooklyn. Unfortunately I’m an enormous idiot and didn’t get the chance to actually go to a class, since I signed up for one and then went to the wrong location. Face palm. Luckily, the manager was understanding and put a class credit back in my account so I’ll be able to try it in the future. Many of the same instructors teach across all these studios, so find the studio vibe and the teacher you love and learn to fly, baby! I can’t tell you how rewarding this journey has been for me. Of course, I also hit up my favorite Y7 teachers from my training — it was so good to reconnect with them, and discuss the weird energy of my weekend training with those with much more experience in that world. After the training, I headed out of Ashlee and J’s Manhattan high-rise and over to Crown Heights, where a bunch of my college besties had settled in a cozy brownstone. I jokingly call it The Commune because there are twelve people living here but amazingly it never feels crowded — just like a big, happy family. They do really beautiful shared meals and there’s always a bunch of laptops at the table working on something creative. I find it such a calming place to be. Brooklyn Brownstone Brooklyn Brownstone Steffi, a name that will be familiar to old school Alex in Wanderland readers, let me play her roommate for a few days while her boyfriend was out of town, and I couldn’t have felt cozier in their light-and-plant-filled space. Brooklyn Brownstone Brooklyn Brownstone It felt insanely luxurious to spend a few days between the training and the travel show catching up on work, attending fitness classes, having dinner dates with various friends, and having some space to be alone with my thoughts. Lil Skips NYCvisiting my friend Dallas at the cafe where she created the menu, Lil Skips January in New York City January in New York City January in New York City January in New York can be kind of bleak. The magic and sparkle of the holidays is over, and the cold can be absolutely brutal. But one day, I was working out of a cafe in Manhattan after a class and before meeting a friend for dinner, and my girl Erica texted me to see if I could meet up. We were both eager to stretch our legs and so decided instead of a tea and coffee date, we agreed we’d go for a walk instead. And actually, there was still a little sparkle still lingering in the city. January in New York City In fact, we stumbled upon the most magical thing. Did you know that when it gets epically cold in New York, the Bryant Park fountain actually freezes over? Despite a youth of trips down to New York, four winters as a resident, and frequent visits back since, I actually did not. (The fact that my tenure there pre-dated Instagram is surely a factor.) Apparently, this particular fountain has an internal heating system that keeps it running even in the most arctic of temperatures, creating a ring of dramatic icicles in the heart of winter. We were completely enamored. Man meets nature! Frozen Bryant Park Fountain Frozen Bryant Park Fountain January in New York City Frozen Bryant Park Fountain And then it was time for the New York Times Travel Show. Oh, and since it kinda sets the tone for the chaos of the week, I should mention that I hopped apartments again just in time, spending my last two nights on my friend Amanda’s couch in Williamsburg. I try to never wear out my welcome when I’m crashing with friends — plus, it gave Amanda and I time for a much needed girls’ night. Anyway, the New York Times Travel Show is a nostalgic event for me as my first ever travel industry event. I first attended in 2011 and then again in 2012 and I guess I haven’t been back since which is wild! It’s a consumer show, not a conference, but still it can be a great place to make connections, network, and get a pulse on the industry. Plus, it’s fun and meant even more friends came to town — like my bestie Angie Away. The night she arrived we got dinner at her old favorite Mexican restaurant from her New York days, preceded by my first ever trip to The Dry Bar. I don’t know what took me so long. I’m hooked now! The New York Times Travel Show The New York Times Travel Show If you’re a travel lover living in New York, I can’t recommend a day at the show more highly. Just walking the floor is fun, and a great way to get inspired about future travel destinations. The in-depth seminars can be super interesting for travel addicts, there are fantastic giveaways (I won 10,000 Starwood points here once!) and there’s always fun things like fun cooking demos and colorful dance performances going on. I loved being back. The New York Times Travel Show I only attended the trade day of the show on Friday, because I had to get back to Albany, so I missed the madness on Saturday and Sunday. But in just that short time I sat in on some very interesting panels (including one Angie was on!), connected with friends and colleagues I hadn’t seen in ages, and sparked a lot of ideas. Of course, it was also tough in ways, too. I no longer had the freedom to travel on a whim, and hearing about other’s enormous career leaps and far-flung adventures definitely tugged at my wandering heart strings a bit. (And I can’t lie, it was tough being back in the Javits Center after my last traumatic experience there.) But mostly, I focused on enjoying the privilege of this trip to New York, which would have been impossible not long before. The New York Times Travel Show The New York Times Travel Show My very last night in New York I was beat — it had been a beautifully busy, exhausting week and I was on my feet all day at the show. By the time I got to one of the crowded happy hour after parties, I was verging on tears I was so eager to sit down. We mingled a bit and caught up with a few more travel friends before heading out to dinner and then one, just one nostalgic drink, we agreed, at Angie’s favorite old Hell’s Kitchen gay bar on the way home. Cue us getting kicked out a karaoke club at 5am closing time. NYC KaraokeNYC Karaoke The best New York City nights are the spontaneous ones you could never plan — and in fact, would have bet a large sum never would have happened, just hours before when you were an exhausted shell of a human. Angie and I still laugh about this night, in which we somehow brought a whole crew from the bar along with us (one of them turned out to have the voice of an angel, which he rudely only revealed after Angie and I murdered a couple Disney songs.) NYC KaraokeNYC Karaoke As my train pulled out of New York, my body was completely depleted, but my heart completely full. It wasn’t an exotic tropical island, or a hardcore backpacking trip. It didn’t produce groundbreaking content, or yield earth-shattering prose. It was more practical than impressive. But I’d traveled. And while it may have only been a hundred and fifty miles, and hadn’t gone exactly according to plan, it turned out it was just the trip I needed.+++5
So, I confess: since I got microblading, I basically feel like everyone should get microbladed. I mentally style eyebrows on the street constantly! I know that this is far from a beauty blog (I think having used a blowdryer more than a dozen times in ones life is probably a prerequisite for that) but microblading seriously changed my life, and even my travels, so much so that I felt a full blog post review was in order. Review of Urbane Brow, Albany, New York Note that I of course couldn’t photograph my own microblading, and in fact did a terrible job of even snagging before and after selfies. Face palm! Luckily, my sister followed in my brow-steps and I was able to tag along and snap away at hers — so that’s her pretty face in most of these pictures, and the video below. But, first things first. What is microblading? Forget the thick, tattoo-gunned permanent makeup eyebrows of the past. Today’s eyebrow-enhancement de jour, known as microblading, is a more refined procedure in which special ink is manaully-applied with a blade that reaches only into the superficial layers of the skin. Hence, it’s only considered semi-permanent, but manages to beautifully mimic the natural hair strokes of real eyebrows. Why did I want microblading? Why is microblading great for travel? So, let’s start with the fact that I was born with thin, pale, barely-existent brows that I plucked into oblivion in junior high (seriously, can we start a campaign for tweezer control for tweens?) Who knows what effect that had on my adult face, but suffice it to say that my brows have been lacking for a long time. I was very self conscious about my bare face as a result. Even on my easy breeziest, low maintenance days, my eyebrows were the one thing I wouldn’t leave the house without doing — even if I was running down the street to pick up my laundry, I smeared an eyebrow pencil on my face. Guys, I’ve even photoshopped them on in photos, ha. Because I was so fastidious about drawing in my brows or deleting photos where they looked realistic, I have almost no “before” photos to show you! But, here are a few. Yikes. Why I Wanted Microbladinga morning I’d drawn my brows on… and Bangkok heat had another idea Still that was far from a perfect solution. First of all, my happiest days are ones in which I really don’t put on makeup at all! This is not at all a judgement on people who wear lots of makeup — contour your face off, girl — I’m just not great at it and love when I’m feeling sun kissed and confident and wake up happy with what I see in the mirror, product-free. (Okay so basically… I’m lazy.) I tried tinting once but I basically had seven hairs t0tal, so it wasn’t very effective. Why I Wanted Microbladingwoke up at 4am to hike, still had makeup on from the day before My travels only exacerbated the issue. First of all, I’m a super active person and traveler — even after drawing my eyebrows in the best I could, I sweat them off constantly. Not to mention I’m under the sea whenever I can be! As soon as I heard about microblading I was hooked on the idea. No more half-assed morning makeup application, no more sweating off or scuba-ing off my brows, no more panicking about if I’d packed enough blonde eyebrow pencils for ten months in Thailand, ha. Why I Wanted Microblading Why Urbane Brows? Why’d I wait so long to finally get the procedure? First of all, I was living in Thailand, not exactly known as the land of natural blondes, and so I was skeptical I could find a technician skilled in my coloring. Second, when I was in the US, I was on the go and unable to commit to the two perfectly-spaced appointments and/or the required downtime (let’s just say for two weeks you are not camera ready. Review of Urbane Brow, Albany, New York Review of Urbane Brow, Albany, New York When I moved back to Albany this fall, I immediately started researching for the perfect fit. I was overjoyed when I came across Urbane Brow on Instagram. I loved the before and afters that were posted, and I just vibed with business owner Ashley’s style. When I went for my consult I immediately clocked how cute the studio is, and I’m not going to lie — that matters to me. I’m supposed to trust you with the aesthetics of my face when I can’t stand your space?! Um, no. I also love that they have online scheduling, which makes snapping up appiontments a breeze (can more studios and salons of all types adopt this?!) And, I was a big fan of the location — every appointment is an excuse to grab lunch, check out the new murals or just stroll though Downtown Albany. Review of Urbane Brow, Albany, New York Their other services include waxing and tinting, lash lifts, and permanent lip and eyeliner makeup. I tried the lash lift before a vacation (I’ve had a couple, always before dive trips — that’s another post!) and have even considered a light permanent eyeliner. Bottom line, as a licensed registered nurse who now trains other microblading technicians, I felt confident Ashley was someone I could trust with my face. Plus, I could see that she’s a forever student like me, always taking new trainings herself in cutting edge beauty procedures — I love that. We really bonded and became friends, and I loved having a new friend to brunch and bar-hop with almost as much as I loved my new brows. Review of Urbane Brow, Albany, New York What’s the microblading process like? After an initial consult, I set an appointment for the microblading itself, and then a touchup six weeks later. You need the touchup, guys — it’s standard in the industry. My sister, who is the model for all these photos, never did hers and her brows faded faster and didn’t have the same consistency (though they still looked great.) First up, you’ll have another chat — you likely went over this during the consult — about what to expect of the procedure and aftercare. Make sure you read the pre-appointment restrictions carefully — no booze for a day, no waxing for three, etc. Then, you’ll start talking style. Review of Urbane Brow, Albany, New York Blonde microblading review She started by drawing on the outline of my potential brows using protractors, rulers, and a lot of intuition. Then, she’d show me the mirror and we’d talk. Blonde microblading review Review of Urbane Brow, Albany, New York This actually ended up being a longer and more intense process than I expected but I mean, it’s your face — that’s a good thing. We went back and forth on shape — I especially wanted a longer tail, and Ashley encouraged me to move the brows closer together and to open up the arch of my brows to open up my face, too. Blonde microblading review Blonde microblading review Once we settled on a shape, we snapped a few photos and got ready to rock. Ashley redrew the brows using permanent marker, wiped away the pencil, and grabbed a blade. At this point we talked about color. There were really just two shades we were mulling over — I was, like all first time microbladers, super concerned about the color being too dark, but really the bigger choice for blondes is between going with a slightly warmer or cooler tone. Blonde microblading review Blonde microblading review With all decisions set, she started blading. I’m not going to lie, it wasn’t until I watched Olivia’s procedure, after mine, that I actually full understood what was going on! Ashley moved quickly but confidently with the blade, making small cuts (there is a teeny amount of blood, which I never even saw for my own procedure) and then rubbing the ink over and into the brows. The whole thing takes about an hour. Blonde microblading review On the first day of your procedure, you have to set an alarm on your phone and every hour gently wipe your eyebrows with a water-wrung cotton pad and pat on some of the aftercare cream you’re given. For the rest of the week, you move to 2-3 times per day. I definitely experienced some minor swelling and scabbing after but nothing alarming — once the procedure was over I really felt no pain or discomfort, though I did try to avoid sleeping on my face for a few days which was a challenge. Also, for a super active person like myself, the toughest part was not working out for a week! Ashley assured me that as long as I wasn’t going to a heated bikram or sweaty spin class, I could resume some movement within a couple days and I did — taking some gentle yoga classes and doing some simple weight training so I didn’t go crazy. For the first two weeks you have to avoid makeup, sun, tanning bed, swimming pools, and the ocean. After those initial two weeks I did start using my face powder to tone down the color of my brows a bit if I was going out in the world — it was an easy and effective solution while my brows continued to heal. Blonde microblading review Six weeks later, I went for a touchup. While my biggest concern was making the tails a little longer still, Ashley also encouraged me to bring them closer together too. I was hesitant, but am glad I listened to her here. I also loved that Ashlee was very chill about moving slow with these steps. She encouraged me to take baby steps and even do a third appointment if necessary rather than shock myself. Microblading is not forever! Ashley estimated that with my age, activity level and skin type I’d probably need a touch up and she was right — I started using my eyebrow pencil again to touch things up at about exactly the one year mark. Time to make that appointment soon! Blonde microblading review Blonde microblading review How much does it cost? From my research I know that microblading costs vary wildly. However, from talking to friends I know that what Urbane Brow charges is standard for top of the line procedures — Ashley herself is $700 for the initial appointment, while her associate (also named Ashley, ha) is $550. Touch ups range from $125-400 depending on the length of time since the initial procedure. Obviously, this is a luxury service by any run of the imagination, especially compared to the cost of the eyebrow pencils I used for years, ha. Needless to say, this is not something you want to cheap out on. Step. Away. From the Groupon. Sadly there are a lot of microblading horror stories out there and Ashley does a lot of correction work for people who drive from far and wide to fix botched procedures with her. Blonde microblading review What else did I do to attain maintinance-free brows, since I am insane? If you caught my post about getting laser hair removal with my friend Jaclyn, you know I was considering electrolysis too. And I did end up starting it — on my brows! Electrolysis is the only method approved by the FDA for permanent hair removal (laser is FDA approved for hair reduction.) It also works on all hair types and colors, and super small areas… like eyebrows. Electrolysis for eyebrows at Smooth Reflections in Albany, New York I was already popping into Smooth Reflections for laser hair removal on my underarms, legs and bikini line and laser genesis treatments on my face, so I figured what the heck, while I’m here, why not get those stray eyebrow hairs electrolysized, too, rather than just tweeze them? We stayed away from any hairs close to the eyebrow line, just to give some leeway in case I ever wanted to do fuller or slightly differently shaped brows, and just focused on the major outliers. Electrolysis for eyebrows at Smooth Reflections in Albany, New York Not going to lie, it doesn’t feel awesome — a probe is inserted into each individual follicle and a mild current is delivered to destroy all of the cells in the hair follicle and prevent regrowth. That said, it feels more uncomfortable than painful and again, you can take ibuprofen beforehand. The number of sessions you need varies wildly since you have to catch every hair at various points in the growth cycle, but I just basically had Jaclyn pluck away whenever I was otherwise there. It was so cheap — it’s $20 for five minutes or $35 for fifteen, which is all we ever needed. Electrolysis for eyebrows at Smooth Reflections in Albany, New YorkElectrolysis for eyebrows at Smooth Reflections in Albany, New York Takeaways Okay guys, especially if you have light hair, you need to prepare yourself for some emotions surrounding getting microbladed! As a natural blonde, I’m not going to sugarcoat it, it is a hard transition as you wait for your brows to fade to their long-term color. But Ashley assured me to just trust the process and I did. And it was worth it. Blonde microblading reviewBlonde microblading review before and after my initial appointment But, you will freak out and think you’ve made the biggest mistake of your life at least once. You may also go through a weird patchy phase — I didn’t really with the original pass but definitely did with my touch up. I found myself explaining even to random delivery people (which I’m sure they were thrilled with) that “hi sorry I look so strange I just got my eyebrows done!” Ashley is also available via phone 24/7  to talk you down from freakouts. Blonde microblading reviewBlonde microblading review before and after my touch up This is why timing is crucial. I got microbladed at a time that I was working from home and rarely leaving the house except to work out or for my mom’s appointments — so I wasn’t too stressed. I was warned that it could take two weeks to fade to the appropriate color but for my face it truly took months. The first two weeks are for sure the most dramatic — I wish I’d taken progression photos at the time, but I wasn’t really in my best blogger mindset. It’s also important to keep in mind that the strokes are very sharp initially, but will soften into the skin over time. In the end I’m super glad I listened to Ashley about bringing the inside of my brows closer together. However, I wish I had been more realistic with myself that my top priority was to maintain my natural brow shape, and not “opened up” the tails of my brows so much, which I hope to slowly adjust over my annual touch ups. As I’ve reached the one year mark the color at the tails of my brows has also started to look a little warm and reddish which is a very common side-effect for blondes who get bladed. Blonde Microbladed Eyebrow Results Blonde Microbladed Eyebrow Resultsbig brows and big smiles Microblading, Lasik, and getting my teeth straightened are the three biggest investments I’ve ever made in my face and they truly changed my life — my days are infinity simpler, and I feel confident and at ease with my reflection. And wow, I love being on the road and on dive trips and knowing I’m ready for an adventure — or a camera flash! — at any moment. I would 100% go back and do it all over again, though I would make slight tweaks on shape and color knowing what I know now. So I am clearly a massive microblading advocate — but you have to know what you want and be mentally prepared. It is just one of the cruel facts of life that blondes, who truly need microblading the most, also suffer the most for it (I hope you can tell I’m being a little sarcastic in my delivery… even though these are facts.) Blonde Microbladed Eyebrow Resultsmy post-microbladed brows out in the wild! My Microblading Tips Thinking about getting microbladed? Here’s my advice from a girl who’s been there, bladed that. • Find a technician you trust — or don’t do it. If you can only afford someone who you feel a little unsure about, save those pennies for a trip instead, girl. It’s not worth letting someone at your face with a knife if you aren’t 100% confident in their skill. • In my opinion, the best time to get microbladed is in the early fall or the winter right after the holidays. If your hair lightens in the sun, it will likely be darker once the weather starts changing, and the darker tones will make your new darker brows a little less shocking until they fade. Make sure you don’t go in right before the holidays, when most people have a lot of social events. • Definitely take a painkiller before your appointment. If you’re super auditory sensitive, some headphones might help too so you don’t have to hear the scratching sound on your face, which bothers some people. For me, I preferred just chatting with Ashley, which also was a distraction from the pain, and listening to her playlists. The follow up hurts a bit more since you’re working on previously worked skin. • Take the aftercare and the touchup seriously. I was pretty religious about mine but I do look back and wish I’d been more careful to put sunscreen on my brows when I was out in the sun, which I think would have helped with the fading. Just keep a little sunscreen stick in your bag and swipe on as necessary. • Recognize that these brows are not forever. The younger and more active you are, the more frequently you will need touch ups. So keep that in mind and plan and save for it. Blonde microblading review Today I feel my eyebrows are a work of ARCH! Okay… sorry but not sorry for that one, ha. I just couldn’t make it through this post without one truly over-the-top pun.+++5
While I was checking off dream neighborhoods, I certainly couldn’t pass up the chance to finally visit Wynwood, the street art-swirled Brooklyn of Miami. As our Uber from South Beach drew closer, we noticed an increasing concentration of colorful murals until there was nary a bare wall in sight. Also spotted? Unique local restaurants, a DJI drone store, offbeat dive bars, craft breweries and one-of-a-kind boutiques. I had a feeling I was going to like this place. Wynwood Street Art and Gallery Tour Review After much careful deliberation, we’d signed up for the Best of Wynwood: Street Art and Gallery Tour, which appealed to us because it is led by an actual Miami native Wynwood artist, and because it takes in not just the ubiquitous street art of the area, but also some funky local galleries. But first, fuel! We settled on lunch at the Wynwood Kitchen + Bar, one of a dozen places we were seriously tempted by. If you sit outside, you’re literally overlooking the official Wynwood Walls (the term is used casually for all the murals in the area, but also refers to an “official” sanctioned area called Wynwood Walls where there are curated works by top artists). While it feels like we kind of couldn’t have gone wrong in Wynwood, this was an excellent choice — great service, a fun menu, and tasty cocktails to kick off the day. Of course, you guys know by now I always leave room for desert, right? One of my top travel habits — and I can hear my real life travel companions laughing as I write this, ha — is immediately searching “name of destination + artisanal donut shop” when traveling somewhere. Sugar industry, you got me good! Miami didn’t disappoint in this department! The Salty Donut was just the creative frosted fix we needed before setting off on our tour. And if you’re not headed to Wynwood (in which case, reconsider) they also have a South Beach location. The Salty Donut, Wynwood, Miami The Salty Donut, Wynwood, MiamiThe Salty Donut, Wynwood, MiamiThe Salty Donut, Wynwood, Miami Our tour meeting location was Wynwood Shop, a chic little boutique with works from all kinds of local makers and shakers. Our guide found us mid-browse, and let us know we’d lucked into a private tour. Wynwood Shop Together we set off on our ninety minute walking tour of arguably one of the most vibrant destinations in Miami. I was quickly reminded why I love street art tours and have taken them everywhere from Saint Pete to São Paulo — not only are you taken down alleys and to hidden corners of creativity you’d likely miss otherwise, you also get to hear the stories behind the artists and their work, which just adds a whole new layer of meaning. We learned the techniques and inspirations behind the works we were admiring, as well as which we were from established artists and which were gambles by up-and-coming talent. Wynwood Walls Street Art and Gallery Tour Review And of course, our conversation wasn’t just contained to art. We peppered our guide with questions about what it was like growing up in Miami, what it’s been like watching the area change as it went from derelict warehouse district to up-and-coming area to hip, happening, and having very much arrived. Our guide was a bit jaded but it kind of went with the whole tortured artist in a once counter-cutural, now gentrifying area thing, so we got it. Our colorful route brought us down many side streets, under overpasses, through parking lots, and into cutting edge galleries. Can you believe there are over seventy galleries and museums here? Wynwood Walls Street Art and Gallery Tour Review We ended at the most famous walls of them all, the Wynwood Walls, in which purposely sanctioned walls have become official outdoor canvases. They were incredible and of course I’m glad we saw them, but they were far from my favorite works of art. All of Wynwood is like an open-air museum. After bidding out guide goodbye, Ian and I took some of his suggestions for the best boutiques to window shop in and wandered around a bit more. It was the middle of the summer heat and we had much of the streets to ourselves — our guide had told us it was the slowest time of the year for tours. No better time for ice cream, right? Wynwood is lousy with cute little scoop shops. We randomly wandered into Dasher and Crank, but there are several that are tempting me back for next time. Dasher and Crank ice cream shop, Wynwood, Miami, Florida I don’t know if it was the heat or the pressures of Insta-tography, but Ian suddenly seemed to kick up his modeling game. Aaaand, that’s when I knew it was time for a drink. Wynwood Tour MiamiWynwood Tour Miami Luckily, our guide had pointed out Gramps, which hit the perfect blend of dive bar vibes, lounge cocktail list, and brewery level craft beers. At night, there’s pizza served in the garden outside, and a rotating calendar of bands, DJs, karaoke, trivia, bingo, and comedy. Don’t miss their happy hour weekdays from 4-7PM — this would definitely be our local if we lived here! Considering how “made for me” status it is, it’s kind of wild it took me three trips to Miami to get to Wynwood. Now that I finally made it here though? I can’t imagine ever coming back to the city without at least popping by here — or maybe even making it home base.+++5
Forget Vegas, Austin and Nashville. When it was time for my girl Ashlee’s big bachelorette splash, we knew our beach loving girl deserved nothing but a send off from singlehood in the Southernmost place in the USA — Key West! A Key West Bachelorette Party I’d long been eager to visit the Florida Keys, and Ashlee’s bachelorette gave me the excuse to finally make a big trip there happen. Now, if some of my loyal Wanderland readers are thinking, “wait, didn’t this chick already have a badass bachelorette in another Sunshine State hotspot, The Wizarding World of Harry Potter in Universal Orlando?” Well yes in fact she did! Tropic Theater Key West But tell me, why should there be just one opportunity to celebrate the wonderful women in your life… and take a tropical Florida vacation? Especially to a destination as unique and colorful as this? (Plus, our Orlando bachelorette was more of a #BasicallyBaackes private party. This one was the traditional, big group bachelorette.) A Key West Bachelorette Party A Key West Bachelorette Party After a mimosa-filled private transfer from Miami all the way down to Key West, we arrived at the gorgeous rental house Ashlee had found for us, right on Southern Duval Street. A Key West Bachelorette Party House Rental A Key West Bachelorette Party House Rental Olivia and I excel in gift bag creation, and this was the perfect opportunity to really splash out. (See what I did there?) I put together an ocean-pun filled color printed itinerary for the weekend, while Olivia ordered a set of laser-cut mermaid name tags for all the ladies in attendance. Add a few mermaid shellebration decorations, and we were ready to party with the porpoises! A Key West Mermaid Themed Bachelorette PartyA Key West Mermaid Themed Bachelorette Party Key West Bachelorette Party welcome bag Mermaid Bachelorette Party Mermaid Bachelorette Party After settling in and enjoying a splash in our small backyard pool, we were off for a low key first night at Latitudes, one of Key West’s most lauded restaurants. Get this: you have to take a boat to get there! From the restaurant’s perch on Sunset Key, it’s a mere eight minute ferry ride across the Gulf of Mexico from the famous Mallory Square. We requested an outdoor table to take advantage of the sunset views, and boy did that giant orb in the sky ever deliver. It was the perfect first night: the food was delicious, it was great to sit down and get to know some of the girls for the first time, and it was a lovely way to ease into a big weekend after everyone had traveled far and wide. Latitudes Restaurant Key WestLatitudes Restaurant Key West Latitudes Restaurant Key West Latitudes Restaurant Key West Bachelorette Party Latitudes Restaurant Key West Bachelorette Party Latitudes Restaurant Key West Bachelorette Party Latitudes Restaurant Key West Bachelorette Party Latitudes Restaurant Key West Bachelorette Party At a place as lovely as Latitudes, almost everyone is celebrating something. But they still lavished our bachelorette with attention, bringing our sparkly girl some sparkling desserts! It was the perfect welcome to Key West. Latitudes Restaurant Key West Bachelorette Party Back at the house, the ever-thoughtful Ashlee wasn’t going to let the weekend slip by without acknowledging another big celebration in the group: Olivia’s birthday! And right on theme, too. We slapped on some face masks and fell asleep watching the mermaid classic, Splash. Shell Birthday Cake Key West Shell Birthday Cake Key West The next morning, it was time to get nauti! We chartered The High Tide vessel for a mimosa-fueled morning sail around Key West, and to the delight of our crew, arrived in full mermaid regalia. It’s kind of a misconception that Key West itself is a great snorkeling destination — the best snorkel-able reefs in the Keys are actually in the Upper Keys, and Key West itself is surrounded mostly with sea grass. But we were just happy to be out on the water, celebrating our girl, saying hi to lobsters, and singing the soundtrack of The Little Mermaid at the top of our lungs. My exact mermaid top is no longer on Amazon, but this is a super similar version! Key West Bachelorette Sailing CharterKey West Bachelorette Sailing CharterKey West Bachelorette Sailing Charter Key West Bachelorette Sailing CharterKey West Bachelorette Sailing CharterKey West Bachelorette Sailing Charter Key West Bachelorette Sailing Charter Key West Bachelorette Sailing Charter Key West Bachelorette Sailing Charter Lobster in Key West While we had a blast, I do have some hesitations over whether or not to recommend this particular charter to other Key West bachelorette parties. The upside? The owner was very friendly and willing to squeeze us in to a packed schedule when we booked last-minute. However, we were disappointed that the promised floating “lily pads” that he promised for sunbathing weren’t onboard, and while the crew was lovely, we found the spots they brought us to a bit odd — we kept pushing to head to waters not completely covered in seaweed — we kept emerging looking like creatures from the blue lagoon! We eventually got to spots we had fun splashing around in, but we were definitely scratching our head at their initial choices. Key West Bachelorette Sailing Charter Key West Bachelorette Sailing Charter Key West Bachelorette Sailing Charter Later that night, after some much needed naps and lounging around our Mermaid HQ, it was time to party our tails off again! Going out in Key West is a blast because you don’t really need a plan — everything is quite centrally located on Duval Street, and very few places charge a cover, so you can pretty much hop around and see what looks and sounds good for the night. I also loved that it was a very “come as you are” situation — we splashed out and got all dressed up because that’s what we love to do, but there were just as many people rocking the dance floor in sneakers, shorts and t-shirts. In Key West, everyone is welcome. Key West Bachelorette Party Nightlife Key West Bachelorette Party Nightlife Key West Bachelorette Party Nightlife The next morning, against all odds, bridesmaid Kelly and I made it out the door for Yoga on The Beach. It was a gentle class, perfect for our delicate conditions the morning after a big night out. At $18 it wasn’t necessarily cheap, but it was in line with what I’d expect to pay at a drop-in yoga class on vacation. Yoga in Key WestYoga in Key West Fort Zachary Taylor Beach Key West Back at the house, the other mermaids were stirring, and it was time to let the sea set us free! We had designated this the official “mermaid’s choice” day where everyone could have some structured free time to make sure they got to live their big Key West dreams. These were the suggestions I included in our cute little welcome booklets: • Fun in the sun! The pool is open, and beaches are abundant! Fort Zachary Taylor, Higgs Beach, or Smather’s Beach are within a twenty minute walk, but teeny South Beach is moments away. • Retail therapy! Use your pearls to shop till you drop. • DIY Rum tour! There are guided tours and tastings at Papa’s PilarRum Distillery every hour starting at 1PM, free tastings all day at Key West Distilling, and free mojito making classes at 4:30PM at Key West Legal Rum Distillery. However, everyone was having such a good time we decided to stick to our pod and spend the day together, starting with some much needed substance. Key West BacheloretteKey West Bachelorette Eventually, we made our way to Fort Zachary Taylor Beach. This state park is a bit tucked away, but well worth seeking out — it definitely disproved the oft-repeated rumor that there are no real beaches in Key West. This one was a beauty! You walk past a Civil War fort to reach the pebbly white beach, where there is loads of shade, a little cafe, and the clearest water we’d seen in Key West. There is a $2.50 entrance fee for all pedestrians which is super reasonable and I think keeps it from being overrun. Fort Zachary Taylor Beach Key West Fort Zachary Taylor Beach Key West Fort Zachary Taylor Beach Key West Fort Zachary Taylor Beach Key West On the walk back to our house, we wandered into a few cute boutiques, including Key West Pottery, who I sought out after following them on Instagram for some time. And look: it’s like they knew we were coming! Key West PotteryKey West Pottery Key West Pottery That evening, we had one more surprise for Ashlee stuffed in our shell bras! A Splish Splash Private Supper, provided by a local private chef. She was a hoot, and kept us laughing with local lore as she prepared us a beautiful multi-course meal. Key West Bachelorette Party Catered Dinner Key West Bachelorette Party Catered Dinner Key West Bachelorette Party Catered Dinner I’m a big fan of doing an at-home meal for a big weekend like a bachelorette party, and think I’ll try to incorporate it into all future events of this kind — it gives you a break from the constant hustle bustle of restaurant meals, and gives you a chance to enjoy the beautiful house you’ve rented for the occasion. And while the meal itself is often a bit pricier than your average restaurant, you can somewhat break even since you can supply your own alcohol. Key West Bachelorette Party Catered DinnerKey West Bachelorette Party Catered Dinner We also had a really special moment where Olivia presented the book she’d had made of memories from all the special women in Ashlee’s life. We all cried as she read them aloud and showed off the fun photos and memories they came with — it was a reminder of what an incredible woman we’d all gathered to shellebrate! And of course, we all had a big laugh when we saw Ashlee’s surprise of a custom cake earlier in the weekend came right back at her — with a different underwater-themed cake, this time in her honor. Good thing sugar makes up such a big part of the average mermaid’s diet! Key West Bachelorette Party Catered Dinner Key West Bachelorette Party Catered Dinner Though there’d been some discussion of taking things easy before everyone traveled the next day, we simply couldn’t resist the siren song of one last night out on Duval Street! What Bourbon Street is to New Orleans, what Broadway is to Nashville, Duvall Street is to the weird and wonderful little island that is Key West. And we had a blast enjoying it. By this point, we’d found our favorites — we were big fans of Durty Harry’s and Sloppy Joe’s, both of which had rocking dance floors and a propensity for playing Britney Spears. The next morning, it was time to call it a wrap. We’d had plans for an official “​Back to the Ocean Goodbye Brunch” at Blue Heaven, but they don’t take reservations and they were packed — so we grabbed something simple to-go elsewhere and indulged in much-needed foot massages at a tucked away reflexology place off Duval instead. Hangover, be banished! And then it was time for some sad goodbyes — though luckily in my case not to the Keys, as I was heading right around the corner to a Key West hotel to start the scuba diving portion of my trip (stay tuned to hear all about that, of course!)+++5 Key West BacheloretteKey West Bachelorette But alas, the girls were leaving. We all agreed, we’d picked the perfect spot. Compact Key West is a winner for bachelorette parties in my book — accommodation is pricey but well worth it, there’s a laid-back but bustling nightlife scene, endless entertainment, and lots of sunshine and smiles to go around. Ah, I love bachelorette parties! From Angie’s surprise shark-themed bash in Bonaire to Ashlee’s wizarding weekend in Orlando to Kirsten’s Nash Bash in Tennessee, they’ve all gone down in the books as incredible weekends — I never take for granted the opportunity to spend special time with the women in my life. Ashlee, this one is to you, my girl!+++5
The number one way to incite a crush? Win over my canine companion. Which is exactly how Kimpton Goodland Santa Barbara earned itself the latest billing in my Hotel Crush series. No kidding — this hotel was one of the reasons I wanted to go to Santa Barbara in the first place. Well, that and the wine. And the ocean. And the incredibly manageable travel time from Los Angeles. Okay, there were a lot of reasons. The pet friendly Kimpton Goodland Santa Barbara with dogsThe pet friendly Kimpton Goodland Santa Barbara with dogsThe pet friendly Kimpton Goodland Santa Barbara with dogs I’m all about laid-back boutique hotels that are heavy on style and light on snootery. The surf-inspired California-chic design of the Kimpton Goodland was everything my East Coast heart could have hoped for, with curated local art, hand-painted longboards hanging from the ceiling and native area succulents planted throughout the lobby. They’ve even got an airstream out from named Rita, guys. Swoon! But this place goes beyond style to substance, too. And by substance, I obviously mean kissing up to my dog. What else could I mean, right? The entire point of this trip was a pet-friendly getaway with world’s most charming cocker spaniel Tucker, and I’ve yet to find a destination more suitable than Santa Barbara, on the whole. Next up: read more of my pet-friendly travel posts here. Kimpton Goodland was the perfect base for my little buddy — they warmly welcome pets, no size limits and no crazy fees. And they truly roll out the red carpet with water bowls scattered throughout the property, and dog beds, bowls, food and treats all provided at check in, upon request. The Kimpton Santa Barbara WelcomeThe Kimpton Santa Barbara WelcomeThe Kimpton Santa Barbara Welcome We arrived to incredible welcome bags from our host, Visit Santa Barbara, for both Tucker and his human companions — though don’t think Tucker tried to trick us into giving him a few of those chocolates, too. We were thoughtfully placed on a ground floor room to make life easier for our geriatric dog (sorry Tucky, it’s true!) and squealed when we walked into our stylish suite. Our favorite detail? A vintage record player with vinyl on loan in the lobby from the appropriately named VNYL, the hotel’s onsite record shop. Keeping with the theme, the spring and summer weekend pool parties are soundtracked by a record-spinning DJ. The Kimpton Santa Barbara Suite The Kimpton Santa Barbara Suite The Kimpton Santa Barbara Record Player The Kimpton Santa Barbara Suite The Kimpton Santa Barbara SuiteThe Kimpton Santa Barbara SuiteThe Kimpton Santa Barbara Suite The smartly tiled bathroom made my tree-hugging heart happy with its refillable toiletry bottles — filled with premium products, the conditioner snob in me might add! The Kimpton Santa Barbara Suite Bathroom The Kimpton Santa Barbara Suite Bathroom We loved that Tucker didn’t have to stay sequestered in our room — he was more than welcome in almost all the hotel’s many common areas. And of course, being the world’s most stuffed animal-like dog, he was constantly being lauded for his cuteness along the way. The Kimpton Santa Barbara Lobby The Kimpton Santa Barbara Lobby The Kimpton Santa Barbara Lobby The Kimpton Santa Barbara Lobby Pretty much the only area Tucker wasn’t allowed was the pool, which was understandable but a bummer. Tucker hates water, so he totally would have just chilled under our chairs, but I know that the temptation would be too much for some aquatically inclined breeds. As a result, we didn’t spend too much time at the pool. Nor in the “movement room,” the posh name for the hotel’s gym. Erm, yes. Let’s mark that down as the reason. The Kimpton Santa Barbara Pool I was shocked when I read the hotel has 158 rooms — it truly felt about half the size. That may have had something to do with the fact that we were there over the week, when, sadly, the hotel has reduced service in its onsite dining venues. We did grab breakfast from the limited grab-and-go menu at Outpost Restaurant one morning, but we’ll have to return to try out the famed weekend brunch (they do also serve lunch Monday through Friday, and dinner all weeklong.) Another reason to come back? The fare at Good Bar, which we were only able to peek into due to renovations, but normally is open every night throughout the week. Luckily Santa Barbara is spoiled for dog friendly restaurants. Outpost at The Kimpton Santa BarbaraThe pet friendly Kimpton Goodland Santa Barbara with dogsOutpost at The Kimpton Santa Barbara Outpost at The Kimpton Santa Barbara Outpost at The Kimpton Santa Barbara Another perk for those sans four legged friend — two free wheels! Kimpton guests have access to adorable bright red beach cruisers with which to tool around town (though, granted, it would be a forty-five minute ride into downtown Santa Barbara, there’s plenty closer to explore.) Free bike rentals at The Kimpton Santa Barbara In fact, the fifteen drive from downtown is one of the only drawbacks we clocked at Kimpton Goodland Santa Barbara, which is technically in neighboring Goleta — and it might be a plus for some travelers. We were also bummed to miss out on so many of the hip happenings at the hotel — check out Kimpton Goodland’s social calendar for activities ranging from s’mores nights to poolside yoga — we will simply have to return for a weekend next time to get the full experience. VNYL at The Kimpton Santa BarbaraVNYL at Kimpton Goodland Santa Barbara with dogsThe pet friendly Kimpton Goodland Santa Barbara with dogs Cause dang, did we have a dog-gone good time here. (Sorry, couldn’t resist.) Looking for more dog friendly Santa Barbara travel tips? Don’t miss my full pet friendly Santa Barbara guide, including the best wineries, off leash dog trails, beaches and restaurants (I had you at wineries though, right?)+++5
An excuse to go to the beach? Check. Fuels my mermaid obsession? Check. Reminds me of everything I love about the weird and wonderful city of New York? Check again. The annual Coney Island Mermaid Parade is one of my favorite events of the year because it just checks so many of my “things that make me smile ear to ear” boxes. I first discovered this parade in 2013, then brought a crew again in 2014, and in the summer of 2018 I was lucky enough to attend for the third time. The Coney Island Mermaid Parade 2018The Coney Island Mermaid Parade 2018 What is the Coney Island Mermaid Parade, you ask? Well! Founded in 1983, this beachside bacchanal is now the largest art parade in the country, with around 1,500 official participants — and many more on the sidelines. There is no ethnic, religious, or commercial basis to the Mermaid Parade — it’s just a beloved New York holiday created by artists; celebrating the sea. To me it is a celebration of everything I love about New York — the passion, the creativity, the community, fun just for the sake of it. And of course, it doesn’t hurt that it’s all done with an aquatic theme. Every year, I find myself in absolute awe of what New Yorkers create! Plus, I love kitschy and historic Coney Island. The Coney Island Mermaid Parade 2018The Coney Island Mermaid Parade 2018The Coney Island Mermaid Parade 2018 If you’re heading to the Mermaid Parade, you need to brace yourself for the most extreme of crowds. I’m not sure if this is backed by numbers or if it was just my perception, but this year the parade seemed exponentially busier and more popular than the previous years I’ve attended. Getting from the subway station to the parade less than two blocks away took over half an hour, and then it took nearly an hour for my friend Amanda, who was meeting me for the day, to get across the street to meet me after arriving from a different subway stop. While it was extremely crowded and people were notably pushy and (perhaps on-brand) salty for a group of people watching a mythical mermaid procession, I did enjoy my hour spent on the street watching the incredible dance performances, enormous motorized floats, and the fresh energy of the participants. The Coney Island Mermaid Parade 2018 The Coney Island Mermaid Parade 2018 The Coney Island Mermaid Parade 2018 The Coney Island Mermaid Parade 2018 The Coney Island Mermaid Parade 2018 Once Amanda and I were united, we decided to head to the boardwalk to watch the rest of the parade. There are pros and cons to watching from each location, which is why I found it nice to split it up. The Mermaid Parade begins at Surf Avenue and W 21st Street, traveling along Surf Avenue and turning east at West 20th Street before turning south to the Boardwalk before ending at Steeplechase Plaza. The boardwalk only features pedestrians and push-pull floats, while watching from Surf Avenue you can spot motorized floats and antique cars as well. I’m pretty sure the full dance performances that some of the groups perform don’t happen on the boardwalk either — I think once they hit that part, a lot of paraders kind of go into party mode and it gets a little less organized. The Coney Island Mermaid Parade 2018 The Coney Island Mermaid Parade 2018The Coney Island Mermaid Parade ReviewThe Coney Island Mermaid Parade Review The Coney Island Mermaid Parade Review The Coney Island Mermaid Parade Review The Coney Island Mermaid Parade Review The Coney Island Mermaid Parade Review The Coney Island Mermaid Parade Review The Coney Island Mermaid Parade Review The Coney Island Mermaid Parade Review That said, it’s a much more lighthearted and relaxed experience — the crowds are insane on Surf Ave and like I said, this year in particular I found the other observers to be fairly aggressive and unpleasant. Lighten up y’all, Spongebob just bopped by! For the best chance at nabbing a great spot, arrive early, or if you really want to splash out, become Coney Island USA member for $200 and snag a spot in the covered Judge’s Stands. The Coney Island Mermaid Parade Review The Coney Island Mermaid Parade Review The Coney Island Mermaid Parade Review The Coney Island Mermaid Parade Review The Coney Island Mermaid Parade Review The Coney Island Mermaid Parade Review The Coney Island Mermaid Parade Review The Coney Island Mermaid Parade Review The Coney Island Mermaid Parade Review Of course, you can also be IN the parade, which is what I did the first year, and is an incredible way to beat the crowds! If you do so, remember that anything goes — including bribing the judges (it might just be not-so-subtly encouraged.) The Coney Island Mermaid Parade ReviewThe Coney Island Mermaid Parade Review The Coney Island Mermaid Parade Review The Coney Island Mermaid Parade Review Once we hit the boardwalk, having pushed our way through the crush of humans and the police barricades, we too were ready for a drink! While many participants were grabbing on-theme mermaid pilsners from Coney Island Brewing, we opted for pina colada slushies from the boardwalk bar with the shortest line, and then watched the final moments of the parade roll through. I love the chaos and party-like atmosphere of the post-parade boardwalk. Some mermaids strip right down and head back to the sea, some make a b-line for the bars, some linger on the boardwalk where spontaneous dance parties erupt. It’s the busiest day of the year in Coney Island, and everyone is there to enjoy it. The Coney Island Mermaid Parade ReviewThe Coney Island Mermaid Parade Review The Coney Island Mermaid Parade Review The Coney Island Mermaid Parade Review The Coney Island Mermaid Parade ReviewThe Coney Island Mermaid Parade ReviewThe Coney Island Mermaid Parade Review The Coney Island Mermaid Parade ReviewThe Coney Island Mermaid Parade ReviewThe Coney Island Mermaid Parade Review The Coney Island Mermaid Parade Review Things were getting a little steamy down on the street, so we sought a higher vantage point. We got in line to get on the roof at Tom’s, but one of the bouncers clearly had the foresight to see that we were a roaring good time and ushered us straight in. We bellied up to the bar and when the bartender saw us discussing the hot dog he was about to eat, he insisted we have it! The hospitality continued when we went to the roof and were immediately poured free shots. It’s settled — Tom’s Coney Island has lifetime customers in both of us for being charming and fun even on their busiest day of the year. The Coney Island Mermaid Parade ReviewThe Coney Island Mermaid Parade ReviewThe Coney Island Mermaid Parade Review The Coney Island Mermaid Parade Review The Coney Island Mermaid Parade Review Eventually, we made our way back down to sea level. Just look at those crowds! I know it sounds crazy, but in this case they actually made me so happy — I love seeing people outside, enjoying their community and a sunny day. The Coney Island Mermaid Parade Review The Coney Island Mermaid Parade Review After a few final piña coladas on the boardwalk surrounded by lingering off duty mermaids, it was time for a Nathan’s hot dog and tipsy carnival rides — arguably the perfect summer day. Luna Card, Coney Island, New YorkLuna Amusement Park, Coney Island, New York Last Mermaid Parade, I talked Amanda into a roller coaster, and this time I got her on the pirate ship. In a few years, we’ll hit the whole park! Nathan's Hot Dogs, Coney Island, New YorkNathan's Hot Dogs, Coney Island, New York Okay but really — cheers to Amanda for always being up for an adventure, and for actively encouraging me to crimp my hair for this event. Every girl needs at least one friend who’s willing to ride the subway all the way to Stillwell Ave once a year. The Coney Island Mermaid Parade 2018The Coney Island Mermaid Parade 2018The Coney Island Mermaid Parade 2018 This was one of my favorite memories of summer! Not only is this a day at the beach and on the boardwalk, which is always a good time, it’s also a reminder that New Yorkers are weird and wonderful and there are hundreds — nay, thousands! — of them willing to spend time, money and effort creating masterpiece sea creature costumes, floats, and dance routines… just for the joy of it. From the Ruth Bader Finsbergers to the Salmon Witch Trials, there was some incredible creativity on display and I loved every sweaty sandy second. I swear, I’m going to walk in the parade again someday… though I have to say it’s a blast even just being a spectator.+++5
Twenty years. On this coming Christmas Day, it will really be 20 years. It was December 25th, 1999 when I boarded a flight from the US to Bangkok and, without knowing it at the time, began my life of travel. Two crazy decades ago. Two unbelievable decades. I still have an extremely difficult time believing everything I’ve experienced in every corner of the world over those past 7,300 days. I have a difficult time simply coming to terms with how my life has played out so far. It’s turned into something that I could never have anticipated no matter how wild I might have allowed my imagination to be. Over the next few months, I’m going to share several blog posts about these 20 years of travel. I’ll open up and talk about as many aspects as I can that have shaped my life and who I am. I’ll also dive deep into each powerful travel lesson learned, the range of destinations I’ve visited, the endless people I’ve encountered and the infinite moments that are responsible for keeping me on the road for so long. Today, however, I’m going to keep it simple. An Important Travel Lesson With only a couple of weeks left in 2019, I thought about what I wanted to share at this time of the year. What I came up with is a small, but vital, lesson I’ve learned during my travels near and far. I kindly ask you to stop and listen. That’s the lesson. To stop and listen. You see, I get frustrated with the world, just like most people. I get angry when I reflect on the direction things seem to be headed in when it comes to politics, travel and more. I get mighty upset when I read about hatred and nastiness and a lack of basic decency towards our fellow human beings. Even writing that sentence, the muscles in my upper arm, those very same muscles that I rely on to tell me exactly when something is bothering me, instantly tense up. It really pisses me off. But at the end of the day, I know that no matter how upset I am, I still need to stop and listen. Travel lesson - Dades Valley shoemaker The Struggle When it comes to my blog, newsletter and social media, I’ve never been one to tackle ‘the issues’. Behind the scenes I most certainly do follow global politics and I most certainly care about many important issues that we face today. But my life has always been about travel and so, I’ve always focused on my actual travels and my travels only. Besides, I honestly struggle at times to make sense of the gap between what I’ve learned during those travels and what I often read or hear in this vast, insane online media world that surrounds us every day. Travel lesson #2: My travels have taught me that listening to others is the single most important thing we can do to solve issues. Not to hate or scream or call people names or refuse to hear what others say. The reason I’ve reached this conclusion is clear. We actually don’t have a full understanding of anything most of the time. So how can we claim to have the perfect answers? The only way to have a more complete understanding of any topic or issue is to talk to other people who think differently than we do. Stop and listen. It breaks down barriers, fosters understanding, builds respect and teaches lessons, and ultimately, all of that is very necessary for figuring out the world’s problems. Of course, I get it. It’s beyond difficult at times to do this. Some things we see and hear sound so horrible to us that we can’t imagine listening to another side. I’m personally appalled by many things I read about today and about particular people who simply refuse to treat others with respect. And so, I can fall into the trap myself. At times, I start doing the same thing I don’t like. I start classifying and labeling people, both those I read about and those I meet, all based on my own frustration at their attempts to classify others. What a terrible cycle to be a part of. It results in me not wanting to meet people at all, sticking with only those who think like I do, becoming more close-minded and bringing other people down as well, all due to my own negative and narrow outlook. Go figure. I temporarily forget my own valuable lesson. Stop and listen. Luckily, I realize my mistake when it does happen and I work on breaking out of that pattern as soon as possible. Cherry Buttons co-op in Morocco Nobody is Right and Nobody is Wrong When I’m thinking clearly, my brain doesn’t have the capacity to comprehend the idea that there is only one way to do something…‘our way‘. The idea that anyone who doesn’t think or act ‘our way’ is so wrong that we need to tear them apart, is a disturbing one to me. Such a mindset ends up putting us inside of a bubble. It’s a bubble filled only with like-minded folk who hold like-minded beliefs and who all follow like-minded media outlets. It’s safe and it helps us avoid facing other perspectives that we are not comfortable with. When that happens though, our willingness to genuinely listen to others and enter into constructive discussions disappears almost instantly. As I mentioned above, we then tend to use our own like-minded bubble to convince us that ‘our way’ is even more right and ‘their way’ is even more wrong. Travel lesson #3: If travel has taught me something else, it’s this… Nobody is right. And nobody is wrong. What we think is obvious, others think is crazy. What others think is ‘right’, we may think of as evil. Everyone is just a different human being with a different set of life circumstances. There are ALWAYS very real and unignorable reasons why we all think and behave the way we do. We don’t have to agree. But we do have to acknowledge the above. Only then can we stop and listen, debate with true purpose and create an inclusive framework for improving and protecting our lives, our countries, our communities, our planet and so on. The Benefits of Such a Travel Lesson Twenty years of travel… Over that time, I’ve spoken with Buddhist monks in Cambodia and Taliban fighters in Pakistan, shop owners in Quito and taxi drivers in Nairobi, cafe workers in Playa del Carmen and dancers on cruise ships, rabbis in Cyprus and wine makers in Romania, farmers in New Zealand and musicians in Varanasi, the homeless and wealthy, the educated and uneducated and every kind of person in between. Yes, try sitting on a patch of grass at 11:00pm in the mountains of Pakistan, talking with a group of young, heavily armed Taliban fighters who start off by saying that they hate Americans and Jews. What if I told you that by the end of our encounter, we were all laughing as if we had been friends for years? What if I told you that we actually made some kind of attempt to discuss their believes and mine, in a respectful way? Believe me, that will teach you a few life lessons quite quickly. When I learned exactly where their beliefs come from and when I saw their faces as they tried to understand why I didn’t believe the same things, I’d say that night was worthwhile for everyone involved. It ended in mutual understanding and an absurd amount of hugs and handshakes. We can fight wars and bomb the hell out of people but to me, stopping and listening is where it’s at. It’s where the solution can be found. Lesson from 20 Years  of Travel - East Timor market All the travel experiences I’ve had since 1999 have shaped my life and who I am. I am me because of the infinite perspectives that I’ve encountered, all the fascinating circumstances I’ve learned about, all of the different (and sometimes difficult) views that I’ve been forced to try and understand and all of the genuine human beings who have been willing to share their little corner of the world with me. Had I been in some kind of small bubble over those past 20 years instead, I have no doubt that I would think quite differently about the world and about myself. As far as I’m concerned, thank goodness I got on that plane back in 1999. Travel lesson #4: Here’s the beauty of it all…those twenty years of travel have shown me that we all really need each other. Trust me on that. To make progress, everyone needs everyone else, even those we don’t agree with. It’s the only way to take a serious problem, find some common ground and turn it around. So, with the end of the year and the end of the decade now upon us, let’s see if we can focus on popping the bubbles and melting the walls that divide us. The result will be greater understanding, greater unity and a greater desire to work together to actually get stuff done so that we can all (planet Earth included) live better lives. That shall be the focus of my 2020. Stop and listen.+++5
After my recent 3 night / 4 day trip into the Chernobyl exclusion zone, it’s time to share some photos. This trip was intense and everywhere I looked there were scattered pieces of a once thriving community, something that does not make for a light experience. If you want to read my impressions and advice about traveling to Chernobyl, please check out my blog post: 4 Day Chernobyl Trip: Impressions, Advice and Photos The below photos include shots from the main abandoned town of Pripyat as well as from villages and areas located all over the exclusion zone. 33 Chernobyl Photos Chernobyl photos - checkpoint Gas masks Chernobyl photos - Duga radar view Duga radar Chernobyl photos - stairwell Chernobyl photos - office building Stained glass cafe wall Chernobyl photos - soldier classroom Greenhouse Chernobyl photos - theater Chernobyl photos - hotel Backstage propaganda Chernobyl photos - boxing ring Chernobyl photos - gym wall Eerie hallway Chernobyl photos - school desk Chernobyl photos - bus station lockers Hospital room Chernobyl photos - dentist Chernobyl photos - dental office Epidemic ward Chernobyl photos - private home Piano shop Chernobyl photos - kindergarden School building Chernobyl photos - Roadside Picnic Shop in Chernobyl City Chernobyl photos - summer camp Computer Chernobyl photos - bumper cars Athletic court Chernobyl photos - television shop If you want to learn more about the Chernobyl disaster, I recommend reading Voices from Chernobyl: An Oral History of a Nuclear Disaster. Here’s a quote from that book that summarizes the disaster well: “It’s certainly true that Chernobyl, while an accident in the sense that no one intentionally set it off, was also the deliberate product of a culture of cronyism, laziness, and a deep-seated indifference toward the general population. The literature on the subject is pretty unanimous in its opinion that the Soviet system had taken a poorly designed reactor and then staffed it with a group of incompetents. It then proceeded, as the interviews in this book attest, to lie about the disaster in the most criminal way. In the crucial first ten days, when the reactor core was burning and releasing a steady stream of highly radioactive material into the surrounding areas, the authorities repeatedly claimed that the situation was under control…In the week after the accident, while refusing to admit to the world that anything really serious had gone wrong, the Soviets poured thousands of men into the breach…The machines they brought broke down because of the radiation. The humans wouldn’t break down until weeks or months later, at which point they’d die horribly.” If you have any questions about visiting Chernobyl, please get in touch and I’d be happy to assist. I can recommend excellent local tour operators and guides that will ensure you don’t have the standard Chernobyl tourist experience that 95% of visitors tend to have!+++5
As I stood outside the tiny airport on Baltra Island, I was quite eager to get this adventure started. I could barely even chat with the 12 other people around me. My Galapagos trip with Andando Tours, on board the S/S Mary Anne sailing vessel, had now become a reality. Eight days later, I was right back in front of that very same airport once again, and I could still barely chat with those around me. This time, however, it was because I simply didn’t want my Galapagos trip to end. What happened in between is quite a tale. It’s a tale of expectations being far exceeded. They were exceeded not because the initial expectations were low but because no matter what one’s expectations, there is no way to fully prepare yourself for the awesome experience that is the Galapagos Islands. Galapagos Trip: The Wildlife When an adorable baby sea lion scratches its belly for two minutes straight, when a bright red crab hangs out on a lava rock right next to a huge multi-colored land iguana, when two albatrosses engage in a beak to beak mating ritual, when a white tip shark swims right by…that’s a typical day while exploring these islands. And that’s not to mention the giant tortoises hanging out in the pond, the sea turtles floating around in pairs or the hammerhead sharks elegantly lurking next to your boat. Oh, let me not forget about the boobies – both blue-footed and red-footed and of the Nazca variety too. Black tip sharks, marine iguanas, pelicans, spotted rays…frigate birds, octopus, Galapagos penguins and short-haired owls. Finally, there were yellow warblers, pink land iguanas, doves, egrets, red-billed tropicbirds, mockingbirds and I’m sure I’m forgetting some others. Galapagos Trip - Blue-footed booby Galapagos Trip - Blue-footed booby In short, there’s wildlife everywhere, to the point where I had to watch my steps for fear of stepping on an iguana, a sleeping sea lion or a Nazca booby egg. I’d be watching a turtle and easily miss the pile of 42 lava lizards on the rock next to me. I’d look at the lizards and miss the rays flapping their ‘wings’ just above the water or the baby hawk playing with the teenage frigate bird, which our guide points out is something he has never seen in 30 years. It went on and on…there was too much to see, everywhere, all the time, on every single island. Galapagos Trip: The Itinerary It seems that many vessels alternate between an eastern and western itinerary and the one I embarked on was of the eastern variety. And while I have no idea what I missed out on (apparently there is a better chance of spotting whales on the western itinerary), I can’t see how anyone would be anything but impressed to the core with the eastern version. Over the course of 8 days, we visited the islands of Santa Cruz, Genovesa, Santiago, Bartholemew and Chinaman’s Hat, Rabida, Dragon Hill, South Plaza, Santa Fe and Espanola (here’s a list of all the Galapagos Islands). We would anchor at each destination and take our small dingy boats to shore or to our kayaking or snorkeling locations. We would sail long distances at night and during the day, we sometimes stayed in one place and other times moved to a different part of a particular island. Galapagos Trip - Blue-footed booby Galapagos Trip - land iguana On this itinerary, we were far away from civilization. The main town in the Galapagos is the 15,000 person community of Puerto Ayora and we spent one day there in the middle of the trip. Apart from that, we didn’t visit the two other islands that have permanent communities on them. Instead, we only visited islands that had no human settlements (and no internet!) and no more than a couple of other boats in each place we anchored. It was paradise, pure wonder and so very otherworldly at all times. Galapagos Trip: The Transportation Our sailing vessel, the the irresistible S/S Mary Anne, held 14 people in cozy cabins, with a classic charm and a laid-back atmosphere that none of those luxury yachts we passed could possibly match. Having once been a racing boat in Germany some twenty years ago, the 66-meter Mary Anne, with her 3 masts, seemed right at home in the Galapagos Islands. As the only Galapagos trip that can be undertaken by wind power alone, this sailing vessel certainly stood out, especially when those sails were hoisted. Out of every other ship we came across, none matched the character of our dear Mary Anne. (We knew this because passengers on other boats told us they kept wanting to take photos of ours!) Galapagos Trip - Mary Anne Don’t get me wrong, the entire experience was of the highest quality, with excellent food and service and attention to every detail. But our group, in fact, any group that heads up the steps of this ship, consists of real travelers eager to discover each island, eager to put on our shoes and head for the trail or hop into our kayaks for a good adventure or put on our snorkeling gear and jump straight into the cool ocean to see what the next underwater world will reveal. And that atmosphere is why I would recommend the proud Mary Anne to anyone looking for a unique way to experience this mind-blowing destination. Galapagos Trip: The Activities Our days were long. Breakfast was served at 6:30am and we were off the boat by 7:15am. We hiked and kayaked and snorkeled, every single day, typically twice per day. And I’ll tell you this…I could have hiked and kayaked and snorkeled for another month without ever wanting to miss a single activity. That’s how breathtaking these islands are when seen first hand. That’s how much awe is created upon every sea lion sighting, every bird sighting and every shark and pufferfish and angelfish and stingray sighting. The same goes for every sighting of a bizarre-looking plant or tree or natural formation or volcano or picture-perfect white or red sand beach. I like animals. But I never could have imagined that I would want to follow the flight of herons and frigates or stare at at a red-footed booby for an hour straight. If you told me that 1000 sea lions would be fascinating, I would have told you that by the 10th sea lion I would be bored. How wrong that would be. Show me 2000 sea lions during one Galapagos trip and I’ll happily observe them all! Galapagos Trip - Me and Sea Lions When I was out there snorkeling off of South Plaza Island and I broke away from my group, a large male sea lion suddenly appeared. He looked me in the eye and then swam only one meter in front of me. I turned around and swam after him. He twisted underwater and so I twisted too. We swam with each other for a good 2 minutes, playing around in a most acrobatic routine. And while his acrobatics were no doubt far superior to mine, he seemed to take delight in my attempt to synchronize. For me, it was pure joy. When I swam around a large school of angelfish, I found myself only one meter away from a two meter long white tip shark. And while they are not known as a danger to humans, its long body and serious face certainly caused me to hold my breath and pause. But then, after that quick pause of fright, I happily turned and swam after him, following right behind for quite some time (until he swam into a dark cave and then I thought it was a good idea to turn around!). When a baby sea lion popped out of the bushes and ran after a red and black land iguana, I pulled my head back in shock as the sea lion bit onto the iguana’s tail. The iguana pulled away and ran over a rock but the sea lion followed and grabbed its tail once again. They were simply playing together, as the crabs and birds and lava lizards all looked on. There were endless moments of amazement. Galapagos Trip - Amazing Iguanas Galapagos Trip - Red Beach Galapagos Trip: The Education There were endless lessons to be learned as well. Our guide, Fernando, was incredible, putting his 30 years of vast Galapagos and conservation knowledge to use as he explained, in fascinating fashion, every detail about every ecosystem, every bird, reptile and mammal, every plant, flower and tree, every volcano crater, lagoon and beach, every conservation program and research effort. These islands reveal far more than what you could possibly read in a book. From the various new species of iguanas that were created over a 10,000 year period to the learned behavior of the finches to the special role of cacti, we learned so many intricate details about how these islands came to be, how these animals came to be and how it all has and will continue to change due to both natural and human factors. That education is something I won’t forget. And it’s why I’m smiling so widely right now thinking about the stunning red sands of Rabida Island and the wacky albatross dances on Espaniola, the thousands of boobies building nests on Genovesa, the hammerhead sharks in Black Turtle Cove and the snorkeling off of South Plaza Island where we encountered hundreds of types of marine life. I’ve been traveling nonstop for over 19 years now and I can state, without hesitation, that this was without a doubt a trip of a lifetime in every single way. And that’s why, outside the Baltra Airport on that final day, I didn’t want to leave. This Galapagos trip couldn’t possibly be over. Or at the very least, I wanted to spot one last sea lion or lava lizard before I took off. Well, I didn’t see either. However, moments before boarding the flight back to Guayaquil, a tiny Darwin’s finch flew through a window and right into the gate area. And you know what, that sendoff was more than perfect for me.+++5
I just returned from an 8 day trip to Las Vegas. It was my fourth time there. As always, I spent half my time in this city shaking my head. There is no other place quite like it and regardless of any pre-conceptions, it’s worth seeing at least once in my opinion. The main reason I was in Las Vegas was to attend the Star Trek Convention. And while I’m not a big Star Trek fan, a friend of mine had invited me to attend and I figured, why not? I’ll be writing a separate post soon about that bizarre experience. As for the city itself, I get a kick out of being here. And while I don’t really gamble and I’m not much of a party person, I always manage to have a good time. If you look hard enough, there really are some awesome things to do in Las Vegas, the kind of experiences that have little to do with the ‘Vegas’ that we think about. During my 8 day trip, I went to the ‘Strip’ only once and I gambled for about an hour total. So why was this such a great trip? Let me tell you all about it… My Favorite Things To Do In Las Vegas Sky Combat Ace Upside down, right side up, flip over again. Nose dives, barrel rolls, hammerhead stalls, loops and a backwards free fall. Those are some of the stunts you can experience when you step into the front seat of an advanced Extra 330LC stunt plane at Sky Combat Ace. It’s absolutely wild. Things to do in Las Vegas - stunt plane Here’s how it works: After a thorough orientation, you board the plane, get strapped in and off you go. Over the next 12-15 minutes, your ex-Air Force fighter pilot (in command of the plane) will take you up in the air and start doing insane stunts. He’ll make sure you get up to speeds of almost 250 mph (400 km/hr) and if the barrel roll doesn’t cause you to vomit into a bag, your pilot will then take it up a notch. What does that mean? You’ll get to experience a Gravitational-force of around 6 or higher. As a reference, at a G-force of 7-9, most people apparently pass out. While I didn’t vomit and I didn’t pass out, when we hit close to 6, I felt as if my body and brain were sucked into a black hole and were melting away into infinity from the pressure. It was a most bizarre and intense few seconds, and I loved it! Things to do in Las Vegas - SCA stunt plane With the Explorer package, you’ll do about 3-5 stunts depending on how you feel up there. You can also choose other packages that include more stunts or allow you to fly the plane or where you can learn what it’s like to be in the midst of an aerial dogfight. Of course, they offer a video package as well, with cameras on the wings and in the cockpit recording all of your crazy reactions to every twist and flip and roll. My favorite moment was when my plane climbed straight up, completely perpendicular to the ground. Once it hit an altitude of about 5000 feet, the engine was cut and we entered into a free-fall straight back down…backwards. It’s as big of an adrenaline rush as you could ever imagine. Good luck and enjoy one of the best things to do in Las Vegas! Once you’re finished being a stunt person, you’ll probably want to take it easy for a couple of hours until your body adjusts from all the intensity. But as soon as you’re feeling better… Star Wars Virtual Reality Head over to the Venetian Hotel and walk through the Grand Canal Shoppes until you almost reach the far end. That’s where you’ll find a most excellent Virtual Reality experience awaiting your arrival. The Star Wars: Secrets of the Empire VR experience takes you straight into a surreal world where your commander gives you a mission to complete. You’ll go undercover, interact with Star Wars characters and do your best to achieve your objective. Things to do in Las Vegas - Star Wars Secrets of the Empire VR Wearing a computerized backpack, helmet, microphone and headset, the adventure is detailed and incredibly realistic as you wander through several different scenes and situations. Within a few seconds of putting the VR gear on, you’ll absolutely forget about the outside world. We came out of this with big smiles on our faces. To put it simply, it’s super fun. *You should make a reservation as only 5 people can go at a time and there are time slots every 15 minutes until about 11pm. The VR experience itself lasts approximately 15 minutes. Now that you’ve been upside down in the sky and you’ve fought off some Stormtroopers, you’re probably a little hungry… Viva Las Arepas This is my favorite place to eat in Las Vegas. It’s not on the Strip. It’s not a sit down restaurant. It’s nothing fancy or overly impressive from the outside. Viva Las Arepas is a simple, local Venezuelan eatery near downtown Las Vegas. Their famous arepas are served up nonstop, day and night, to a growing crowd of both locals and travelers who have heard about the place. It’s reputation is spreading, and for good reason. They have about 12 different kinds of arepas (the arepa cachapa and arepa reina pepiada are my favorites) and they also serve up empanadas. Each arepa only costs around $6 and it’s best to go there hungry because you’ll absolutely want at least two! Things to do in Las Vegas - Viva Las Arepas You order at the counter and if you have any questions about the food, the staff are more than happy to assist. I took my friends here on our second night in Vegas and I was not surprised when they wanted to go back a few nights later. It’s worth the short trip from the Strip (less than 10 minutes away), especially if you’re tired of buffets and expensive meals. This stuff is as good as it gets! *Address: 1616 South Las Vegas Blvd, #120, Las Vegas, NV 89104 With stomach full, surely you’re thirsty… Frankie’s Tiki Room It’s time to make your way over to the unique Frankie’s Tiki Room. This Tiki bar is an institution. The bar itself has been around for 60 years and it’s been a Tiki bar since 2008. It’s also not on the Strip. It’s also close to downtown Vegas, right next to a gas station. However, don’t let that fool you and don’t let the fact that this local bar doesn’t have any windows stop you from going either. This is the real deal, designed by a famous Tiki bar designer, and unlike anything you can imagine. Things to do in Las Vegas - Frankie's Tiki Room When I took my friends there last week, here’s how it went: – We entered. – My friend said, “What on earth is this place? Looks like a crappy bar.” – We hung out for an hour and a half, drinking a couple of their unique cocktails. – We left. – My friend said, “That was awesome! I love that bar.” Sure, it might have been the cocktails talking but this is what happens every time I go there. What starts off as a weird experience, turns into a favorite bar. EVERY TIME. The atmosphere is laid-back, the lighting dark and there’s only room for about 40 people in the place. There are totem poles, carved wooden furniture, original artwork, torches and of course, their strange, yummy cocktails that everyone comes for. Things to do in Las Vegas - Frankie's Tiki Room interior It’s a very welcoming place, even if you completely look like you’re not from the area. Nobody minds, just come on in! And that’s what makes it one of my favorite things to do in Las Vegas. Oh, it’s also open 24 hours. (The Wai’anae Wipeout is my favorite drink – a mix of rum, mango and ginger.) *Address: 1712 West Charleston Blvd, Las Vegas, NV 89102 After a couple of drinks, you’ll probably have a good night’s sleep. Hopefully, the next day you’ll also have enough energy for an unforgettable day trip to… Death Valley National Park I was always curious about Death Valley and on this trip, I finally made it. Unfortunately, we went in the middle of summer. The day we were there, the temperature hit a ridiculous 123F (50.5C). It was brutal. However, it was also beautiful and well worth the trip. Things to do in Las Vegas - Death Valley view Only 2 hours away from Vegas along the scenic NV-160, Death Valley National Park offers a chance to see canyons, mountains, salt flats, hot springs, waterfalls, a Timbisha Shoshone Native American community, the lowest point in North America and one of the hottest spots in the world. We stopped at Zabriskie Point, the village of Furnace Creek, Artist’s Drive and then we went for a short hike out to the Salt Flats at Badwater Basin. That last one is where the temperature reached 123F and we all almost passed out during the 30 minute hike. Things to do in Las Vegas - Zabriskie Point in Death Valley Things to do in Las Vegas - Badwater Basin in Death Valley However, despite the burning nostrils and my shorts being soaked in sweat all day just from standing outside, it was all mesmerizing and stunning. Awesome day, highly recommended! Just please bring a ton of water, a hat, sunscreen, sunglasses and anything else that will help you handle the heat, especially if you go during the summer. *The entrance fee per vehicle is $30 that you pay at a little kiosk as you enter the park. With Death Valley out of the way, how about something a little more chill? Red Rock Canyon Conservation Area Located only 30 minutes outside of Las Vegas, you won’t believe that you’re so close to a city once you enter this conservation area. It’s all incredible nature, in every direction. Set at the edge of the Mojave Desert, once you’re inside the Red Rock Canyon Conservation Area, there is a 13 mile scenic drive that loops all around. Things to do in Las Vegas - Red Rocks Canyon Conservation Area You’ll be able to stop at the Calico Basin and Bridge Mountain, check out the Joshua trees, sandstone formations and short trails that wind along the hills. There are plenty of longer hiking trails as well, ranging from 1 to 11 miles in length, and there are also opportunities for climbing. The red rocks are brilliantly red, the rocky mountains are imposing, the desert spreads out as far as you can see…you get the idea. Things to do in Las Vegas - Red Rocks Canyon Again, being only 30 minutes from the city, this peaceful location is the most ideal mini-escape from the madness and one of the best things to do in Las Vegas as a result. The photo at the top of this post is also from Red Rocks.+++5
Chiang Mai has no shortage of posh resorts, but most of them are either miles out of town, or are missing that boutique-y touch that makes a hotel stay so memorable. 137 Pillars House, however, delivers effortlessly on both fronts. The resort’s location is hard to beat: set along a quiet street in the Wat Ket area, it’s surrounded by smart coffee shops, quirky boutiques and fantastic riverside restaurants. And, more importantly, far away from the maddening tourist crowds in the Old Town and Nimmanhaemin areas. Surrounded by high walls and strategically positioned vertical gardens that keep the neighbouring buildings out of sight, a garden dotted with ancient banyan trees, blooming orchids, and blissful daybeds offers the feeling of a sanctuary amidst Chiang Mai’s often hectic streets. Surrounding it all are a dozen or so whitewashed villas. It’s an all-suites affair, so whichever room you book, you can be sure of heaps of space complemented by marble-accented bathrooms with Victorian bathtubs, indoor- and outdoor showers, double vanities, stupidly big four-poster beds, and secluded private balconies or terraces. Jasmine-scented Panpuri amenities and modern-day mod cons like Nespresso machines and enormous flatscreen TVs complete the package. 137 Pillars House Chiang Mai Review The suites are not as glitzy as the ones at the resort’s much flashier sister property in Bangkok – but that’s a good thing. They deliver colonial splendour with dark wooden floors, sultry red accents, and black-and-white photographs adorning the walls. We particularly loved the decorative pillows and curtains printed with little elephants – a delightful local touch. The beautiful teakwood 137 Pillars House (also known as Baan Borneo, it served as the headquarter for one of Chiang Mai’s first foreign companies) is the resort’s pièce de résistance and is home to two restaurants: chic Palette is a white tablecloth, silver cutlery affair turning out European classics like an excellent French onion soup, a feta-flecked beetroot salad, and grilled salmon steak (but a so-so hamburger) – all made extra special with the live piano music playing at dinnertime. 137 Pillars House Chiang Mai Review The ornate backroom hosts The Dining Room, an elegant Thai restaurant where Northern Thai specialities dominate the menu – mostly drawing on organic produce from around the region. Cap off the night at Jack Bain’s Bar, a gentlemanly cocktail spot where the resort’s rich history is clearly visible. Crowning it all is an army of well-trained and genuinely friendly staff that cater to guests’ every whim. An on-site butler was available throughout our stay and was just a text message away to help out with dinner reservations and cleaning baby bottles. 137 Pillars House Chiang Mai Review Tips Littered with pillows and loungey daybeds, the balconies at the 2nd-level suites make for great lazy-afternoon relaxation spots. They also offer a little more privacy than the suites on the ground floor. The vibrant Warorot Market (a perfect spot for quirky cheap Thai souvenirs) sits just across the Ping river, a leisurely 5-minute walk away from the hotel lobby.+++5
They are characters that seem drawn from either the distant past or some future dystopia, figures out of the mythic American west, hacking up meat and chopping wood, clad in buckskin, fur, and plaid, the occasional baby slung over a hip. Their hands are slopped in blood and their encampment dotted with stretched buffalo hides and pots of bone broth boiling on woodstoves, the scenes bracketed by imposingly snow-capped mountains. These are members of the Buffalo Bridge Project, a group of primitive skills practitioners who migrate to southern Montana every winter to assist Native American hunters in an annual buffalo hunt. The hunt is allowed under the auspices of the 1855 Hellgate Treaty, though it has only existed in its current form since 2006, when tribal leaders convinced the state of Montana to honor the treaty and restore their hunting rights. It takes place mostly in Gallatin National Forest, near the town of Gardiner, just north of Yellowstone National Park. Bison roam outside of park boundaries in winter, into lower-elevation grazing lands, where members from five western nations—the Umatilla, the Nez Perce, the Confederated Salish and Kootenai, the Shoshone-Bannock, and the Yakama—shoot them in specially designated hunting zones. Every February, as the hunt approaches, members of the Buffalo Bridge collective arrive from their homes all over the Western U.S. and set up camp on land they rent from a nearby rancher. There they wait for an opportunity to be useful. And such opportunities abound. The animals are enormous—one-ton bulls are not uncommon—and skinning, gutting, and breaking down the carcasses takes a tremendous amount of work. The Buffalo Bridge crew is made up primarily of people who live close to the ground year-round, holding to their own code and making use of what others would discard. They’ve dedicated themselves to building a utilitarian skillset, and have worked hard to forge alliances with Native American hunters, who generally view them as a welcome addition. They spend a month and a half alongside the hunters, assisting where needed to butcher and pack meat. In exchange, they accept animal parts, meat, and hides, and scavenge what little remains on the carcasses after the hunters are done with them, down to rendering every last scrap of fat. Field butchery is just part of the pre-modern skillset this group, led by self-described “Wilderbabe” Katie Russell, has sought to reclaim. They practice flint knapping and build friction fires, use bones to make tools, and have been relearning an ancient technique for using bison brain in the tanning process. Unlike their European forebears, and the Native Americans who benefit from subsistence hunting, the Buffalo Bridgers have opted into this way of life. But they also they take their integrity seriously, and have turned away more than one curious reality TV producer. But photographer Matt Hamon’s more patient, collaborative approach appealed to the group, and the intimacy he has managed to achieve with them is evident in photos that, while not strictly posed, are certainly crafted, each one evoking an ambiguous narrative about the American West. That ambiguity is intentional, and appropriate to the historically fraught subject matter. But whereas rapacious white outsiders killed buffalo by the millions in the nineteenth century, sometimes as part of a concerted attempt to destroy the tribes that lived off of them, these ones are standing aside as descendants of those tribes hunt, and picking up the leftovers.+++5
When I received an email from the Hotel St Moritz here in Queenstown, asking me if I’d like to stay a few nights in their recently renovated lake-view Alpine Suites, you can imagine I didn’t have too hard of a time writing a reply. My other half had an upcoming birthday, and I decided it’d be a perfect chance to treat her to a birthday surprise – a staycation in Queenstown. After spending half a dozen years in Queenstown, it’s easy to forget how spectacular of a place it is. Breaking up the daily routine for a couple nights spent as a tourist is a great way to see the town through a refreshed lens. Balcony Reflections at Hotel St Mortiz Balcony Reflections at Hotel St Mortiz I already knew of the hotel, not necessarily for the quality of the accommodation they provide, but for the outstanding food that is served up at their signature Lombardi Restaurant. It’s a place Maura and I often treat ourselves to dinner at, thanks to some great value dinner / drinks deals they offer throughout the week. The idea of treating ourselves to a meal at Lombardi, and then retreating to the comfort of a room at the hotel was oh-so appealing. The Space Based on the feel and ambiance of the restaurant and hotel lobby, I could only imagine how stunning their rooms would be. I’m pleased to say my imagination didn’t let me down. Hotel St Mortiz Lobby Hotel St Mortiz Lobby In a bucket-list worthy destination like Queenstown, it’s fair to say you might want an equally bucket-list worthy place to stay for your few nights in town; the five star Hotel St Moritz offers this. It’s a big hotel, but thanks to its tastefully decorated rooms, lobby and hallways, the space feels quite small and boutique. The Room We stayed in their recently renovated and tastefully decorated One Bedroom Alpine Suite, which immediately felt like a home away from home. HSM5HSM6 The view couldn’t have been better – a small balcony opened up to panoramic views of Queenstown’s famous snow-capped mountains and Lake Wakatipu. The suite was enormous; with a kitchenette, separate room featuring a king-size bed, spacious bathroom with walk in shower, full sized sofa and large dining table (or workspace for me), we were spoilt for space and comfort. Queenstown's Most Comfortable Bed Queenstown’s Most Comfortable Bed It’s cliche to go on and on about how comfortable a hotel bed can be, but oh – my – goodness. This bed. Was. So. God. Damned. Comfortable. It’s not very often we stay someplace with turndown service. Returning from dinner one evening, it was a delightful surprise to find the bed turned down with some bottles of water and chocolates by the bedside. If that wasn’t enough, we also were left with a Pillow Menu. Bliss. Turndown Service Turndown Service (seriously, doesn’t the bed look divine?) Pillow Menu I normally get quite claustrophobic if I spend too long in a hotel room, but here I struggled to find any reason to leave the hotel during my stay – let alone my room. The Amenities I did find a reason to leave the room though, and it was this: The hotel’s Hot Tub Garden. Hot Tub Garden Hot Tub Garden Hotel St Moritz has recently installed two hot tubs, and on a cold winter’s day, it was the perfect place to soak up the alpine views that make Queenstown famous. A glass of wine, a book and the tranquility of a hot tub with mountain views – perfect. And then there was this: Breakfast of Champions Breakfast of Champions Breakfast Views Breakfast Views The buffet breakfast is worth returning for, if nothing else. Eggs made to order, fresh fruit, homemade muesli and breakfast smoothies and cakes. Add to this the views from the restaurant each morning, and somehow I was able to pull myself out of that incredibly comfortable bed to eat. The Verdict Wine With a View Hotel St Moritz is perfect if you’re looking for an excuse to treat yourself to an extra special stay in Queenstown. It’s centrally located enough that you can walk to town in 10 minutes or so, but far enough away that you escape the rush of the increasingly busy city centre. Ideal for honeymooners, a romantic weekend away with the other half, or anyone looking for that extra bit of comfort and luxury during their adventure or snow holiday in Queenstown. The service was top notch – from the reception staff, to the restaurant staff, to the nightly turndown service, no expense is spared by the hotel to make sure you have an outstanding stay. Follow this link to book your stay at the Hotel St Moritz, part of the AccorHotels group. Disclaimer: Hotel St Moritz offered me complimentary accommodation for our Queenstown Staycation, but as always these opinions are my own. +++5
I associate one thing with visits to Melbourne – DUMPLINGS. Beautiful, flavorful, pork, garlic, or shrimp filled dumpling goodness. In China, dumplings are laid out on New Years Eve to bring you wealth in the months ahead. In Melbourne’s Chinatown, any dumplings laid out on my table are inhaled immediately. Yum. One of the few downsides to living in New Zealand, at the bottom of the world, is being thousands of miles away from family and old friends. Luckily however, Maura has extended family in Melbourne, so we try and make the most of that and get over there at least once a year to catch up with family, and gorge on dumplings. We’re just back from a very last-minute trip to Melbourne. Thanks to some cheap airfares with Jetstar, we traded the mountains of Queenstown for the skyscrappers of Melbourne for a long weekend. IMG_0319Hotel Quickly Quite a few months ago, I was asked to do a review on a new hotel booking app called Hotel Quickly. Given my weekends away in New Zealand are generally spent in the mountains as opposed to in hotel rooms, this visit was a good chance to try out the app. Especially useful as our trip to Melbourne was a last-minute one, and this is the type of traveler Hotel Quickly is aimed at. The premise behind the app is simple: Hotel Quickly offers the best prices on last-minute 3, 4 and 5 star hotels.  You can find deals up to one week in advance. It does this, and it does it in a really beautiful way. The app is simple to use … and strangely enough for something as mundane as a hotel booking app, it’s almost enjoyable to use. In the case of Melbourne, you’d find dozens and dozens of hotels, motels or guesthouses on the likes of Agoda or Booking.com. Hotel Quickly shows you a limited number of hotels they’ve secured the best deals on, and allow you to filter these out based on a couple different bases: Top 10 Deals, Near Me, Luxury, Mid-Range or Standard. Booking is simple, after you’ve added your payment preference to the app, all you do is enter your Name / Contact details, and Swipe to Pay. Confirmation is sent immediately, and if you have questions there’s a built-in Live Chat system on the Hotel Quickly app itself. No need to call an international number and remain on hold for ages, you can chat with their staff directly through the app. IMG_0318Best Prices by Earning Credit Hotel Quickly claims to have the best prices that are on average 28% cheaper than other online options. My booking at the Vibe Savoy Hotel was slightly cheaper than Agoda, but certainly not by 28%. The advertised rate on Aogda was $371 NZD and Hotel Quickly had the room available for $370 NZD. However, one thing that Hotel Quickly offers that you won’t find elsewhere is the ability to earn free travel credit that can be used on your bookings. By sharing the app with your friends, you can earn $2 NZD each time they download the app. They’ll get $30 NZD in free credit, and when they use the credit you earn yourself $30 NZD in free travel credit as well. So, if you have a lot of friends that do a lot of travelling, there’s potential to book some hotels at very good prices. Vibe Savoy Hotel Vibe Savoy Hotel You also get ongoing benefits as part of their loyalty program. Make 1 booking per year, and you’ll get a 4% discount on every room you book; 5 bookings per year earns you a 6% discount; 10 bookings per year earns you an 8% discount. They stand behind their ‘Best Price’ promise, and will refund 2x the difference if you find the same room advertised for a better price. So, you’ve got a beautifully designed app that’s almost enjoyable to use thanks to its UX and design. This app promises to offer you the best prices on last-minute hotel bookings. And the icing on the cake? There’s a very real potential to earn heaps of credit simply by sharing the app with your mates. It’s a no-brainer for last-minute travel. Follow this link to download the Hotel Quickly app and enter my referral code MKYHN to receive $30 NZD in free travel credit. Hotel Quickly offered me compensation for this review, but as always these opinions are my own.+++5
Which countries in the world offer the most value? Where can you travel to in 2020 that will allow you to go for longer, enjoy a higher standard, and save more money? The following are 30 destinations around the world that offer the essentials – accommodation, transportation, and food – for less: Jump to: ASIA EUROPE THE AMERICAS AFRICA ASIA 1. Laos, $30/day laos cheapest places to travel to Back in my budget backpacking days around Southeast Asia, Laos was one of the two destinations where I was able to keep my budget at $30/day, even though accommodation was slightly more expensive than most places in Southeast Asia at that time. Many of the amazing activities you can do in Laos are cheap. I paid $2.50 to see one of the most beautiful waterfalls in the world, $7 for a full day tubing experience along the Vang Vieng river, and $6 for an awesome tiger balm massage. You can also rent a motorbike for cheap and venture off to the smaller towns, where everything is even cheaper! With more and more new hostels built to cater to the increasing number of backpackers, you can go for cheaper for longer. However if you have a bit more to spend, you can get a gorgeous room for closer to $35 that would easily cost $100 in the US. Meals: $3 – $9 per day. Some hostels provide a basic breakfast Accommodation: $5-$10 per night in a hostel Transportation: $6 – $15 for a motorbike for the day (prices may vary depending on the bike condition and your haggling skills), or up to $25 for an intercity bus ticket SIM card with data: $6 for 1.5GB with 30-day validity READ: The best things to do in Laos 2. Vietnam, $30/day I probably had the healthiest and cheapest street food in Vietnam. Think a soup with rice noodles, cilantro, amazing broth, and a whole shank of pork for $1.50, or a cup of strong, aromatic coffee for $1. As far as transportation goes, if you rent a motorbike, you are all set for the day. However, I understand that not everyone is comfortable riding a motorbike, especially in countries like Vietnam where the road traffic can be overwhelmingly chaotic. The good news is that GrabBike (similar to Uber but on bikes!) is widely available in all major cities, and the cost is as low as $0.50 for a 2km ride! The long distance buses and trains are also affordable and reliable. Accommodation is similarly pleasant and easier to afford than almost anywhere else in the world. Meals: $5 – $10 per day. Some hostels provide breakfast that consist of a baguette, fruit, and coffee Accommodation: $5-$10 per night in a hostel (here’s a full guide to the best hostels in Vietnam) Transportation: $8-$15 for a motorbike for the day (prices may vary depending on the bike condition and your haggling skills) or for an intercity bus ticket SIM card with data: $2 for 1.5GB with 30-day validity. Yes, it is that cheap! READ: The ultimate backpacking Vietnam route planner 3. Cambodia, $25/day I know for sure that if you choose to rough it, you can easily spend a month in Cambodia with just $1000. Dorms are very basic but can be dirt cheap, the same goes for food and alcohol. I also had my haggling skills to thank as I was almost always able to talk my way out of being charged unfairly by the Tuk Tuk drivers. There are some one-off expenses such as the 3-day pass to Angkor Wat, which is currently set at $62, and diving trips that add up, but there will also be days of riding bicycle in a small village and eating cheap and delicious meat skewers, when just a dollar or two could stretch very far. Another thing is to consider the gorgeous, mostly new boutique hotels on booking.com. They are obviously not as cheap as staying in hostels but for the price, they are so worth it! I’d definitely splurge on a couple of nights and have some R&R time by the pool. Meals: $5 – $10 per day. Some hostels provide breakfast Accommodation: $3-$10 per night in a hostel (here’s a guide to the best hostels in Cambodia) Transportation: $6-$15 for a motorbike for the day (prices may vary depending on the bike condition and your haggling skills) or for an intercity bus ticket SIM card with data: $2 for 1.5GB with 30-day validity. Yes, it is that cheap! READ: A perfect Cambodia itinerary 4. Northern Thailand, $30/day The north of Thailand is easy on a tight budget.  As one moves south, costs for accommodation start to double, triple, and even quadruple. If you are short on time and budget for your Thailand trip, stay up north! Even in popular places like Chiang Mai and Pai, you can easily find basic dorms for less than $5. If you stick with eating street food (To each her own, but why eat pasta when you can have pad Thai, am I right?), not only will you save yourself some money, the experience will be much more authentic and delicious, too. As far as activities go, you really do not need a lot of money to enjoy your day as most activities such as visiting the White Temple, hiking, or gathering 3 other people from your hostel to rent a car and go on some day trips, are all affordable. Meals: $5 – $15 per day. Some hostels provide breakfast Accommodation: $5-$10 per night in a hostel Transportation: $6-$10 for a motorbike for the day (prices may vary depending on the bike condition and your haggling skills) or a rental car split between 4 people SIM card with data: $7 for 1.5GB with 30-day validity READ: 8 Amazing Day Trips from Chiang Mai 5. Indonesia, $30/day The Blue Lagoon on Nusa Ceningan The thing about Indonesia is that it can be really cheap, or it can be quite expensive, depending on one big thing – transportation. Intercity traveling can be very time-consuming and costly, so is traveling from one island to another with a private boat. To save costs, stick with a region or two! There’s a lot to do and see, and spending more time in one place will only allow you to travel deeper and have a more meaningful experience anyway. If you want to travel far and wide on a budget, my biggest tip is to take the local transportation! That’s what I did backpacking in Indonesia a few years back, and sure enough, I ended up with some funny stories. On the flip side, food and drinks are cheap throughout the country, not to mention absolutely delicious too! Riding a scooter through the mountains costs very little, so does hiking, chasing waterfalls, and slouching in a hammock by the beach all day long. Hostels are plentiful, social and affordable, especially in places like the Gili Islands. Meals: $5 – $15 per day. Some hostels provide breakfast Accommodation: $5-$10 per night in a hostel Transportation: $8-$15 for a motorbike for the day (prices may vary depending on the bike condition and your haggling skills) SIM card with data: $5 for 2GB with 30-day validity READ: The Perfect Indonesia Itinerary for 2 weeks to 2 months 6. The Philippines, $35/day lagaan falls siquijor The Philippines’s archipelago can cost quite a lot of both money and time to get around, and the hostel options aren’t nearly as abundant as other Southeast Asia countries. While these two factors seem like a big turn off for travelers trying to stretch their budget as far as possible, there are ways to keep your travel cost in the Philippines low. If you choose to travel during shoulder seasons, book your flights and plan your journey way in advance (it is not the country to always wing it!), and try to stick within 1-2 regions, the Philippines can still be affordable. On top of that, the country has some of the most gorgeous islands, beautiful dive sites, and hidden gems that you’d have had to pay so much more to experience in other parts of the world. In that sense, the Philippines is worth every peso you spend. Meals: $5 – $15 per day. Some hostels provide breakfast Accommodation: $7-$13 per night in a hostel Transportation: $10-$15 for a motorbike for the day (prices may vary depending on the bike condition and your haggling skills) or $15 – $20 for a boat ride from one island to another SIM card with data: $6 for 2GB with 30-day validity READ: The Perfect Philippines Itinerary 7. Malaysia, $35/day tioman island beach Being one of the most economically developed Southeast Asian countries, Malaysia is often perceived as expensive. On top of that, when I visited Malaysia for the first time, a few people told me it wasn’t worth staying long. However, I ended up meeting lots of locals, more able to communicate and find more common ground with them than I had in Cambodia or Laos, and had so much fun exploring Cameron Highlands, the jungles of Borneo, and the gorgeous islands. The cherry on top? They were all affordable. An overnight bus from Kuala Lumpur to the Perhentian Islands costs as little as $8, there are so many interesting local neighborhoods and markets that are free to explore, and finally, the Malaysian cuisine is like no other – you can find food from just about any culture and it’s so cheap and delicious – but not necessarily healthy. Malaysia is also one of the cheapest places in the world to get a PADI scuba diving certificate. The one thing that could make Malaysia expensive to travel in is alcohol, which is highly taxed. However, if you don’t plan on drinking every night, that will not be an issue. Meals: $5 – $10 per day. Some hostels provide breakfast Accommodation: $5 – $15 per night in a hostel Transportation: $3 – $5 for a full day of train and bus rides, or $8 – $15 for an overnight intercity bus ride SIM card with data: $8 for 2GB with 30-day validity READ: The Best Places to Visit in Malaysia 8. Sri Lanka, $33/day train from ella to kandy, Sri Lanka Like many countries, Sri Lanka can be seen on a backpacker budget, or one can spend a small fortune there.  The biggest kicker was the price of activities, such as safaris, and admission into the UNESCO World Heritage sites.  With each running about $40-$50 per ticket, this made Sri Lanka more expensive to fully explore. That said, Sri Lanka can be done on closer to $30 per day on the days that you don’t pay for expensive activities. Food, transport, accommodation, and Internet are relatively cheap. One thing to note about transportation is that in some cases, taking a taxi / uber (in major cities) can be cheaper than renting a bike. If you can find people in your hostel to split the cost, hiring a driver for the day can be as low as $5 per person. The cheapest transportation is the train, which is delightful and IMO, the best way to travel through Sri Lanka. Meals: $5 – $10 per day. Some hostels provide breakfast Accommodation: $8-$15 per night in a hostel Transportation: $10-$15 per person for a private car and driver split between 4 people, or $3-$5 for a second-class cabin train ride between cities SIM card with data: $2 for 1.5GB with 30-day validity. Yes, it is that cheap! READ: A Complete Guide to Sri Lanka 9. Nepal, $28/day thurong la pass nepal Nepal is a very cheap country to travel through, with most food, accommodation, and transport running at just a few dollars if you eat, sleep, and travel using local options. For food, while I never seem to get any stomach problems eating street food, the street food in Nepal does not have the best reputation. You can get cheap and delicious home cooked meals in local-run small cafes though. Be very mindful when you book your accommodation online, as big corporations have taken over local homestays and turned them into boutique hotels and resorts. The “local guesthouses” you’ve booked may very well be part of a big hotel chain. I suggest booking the first couple of nights online, and look for accommodation from real local guesthouses when you’ve arrived. If you end up trekking, as long as you do so independently and avoid Mt. Everest itself, which costs tens of thousands of dollars, you can travel for as cheap as $10 per day on food and accommodation at the lower elevations, and closer to $20 USD at higher elevations on popular routes like the Annapurna Circuit. Meals: $5 – $10 per day. Some hostels provide breakfast Accommodation: $5-$10 per night in a local guesthouse Transportation: $10-$15 per person for a private car and driver split between 4 people, or a local bus ride between cities SIM card with data: $3 for 1.25GB with 30-day validity. Yes, it is that cheap! READ: A Comprehensive Guide to Nepal 10. Taiwan, $34/day taiwan cheapest place to travel to 2 words: street food. For less than $2, you can get a plate of fragrant rice with pork / chicken on top, a large deep fry chicken chop, or a bowl of delicious vermicelli with oysters. Food in Taiwan is delicious and ridiculously cheap. If you are a foodie on a budget, you know where to go! In cities like Taipei and Tainan, you can register for their city bikes, which cost less than $0.50 per hour per ride, and are free for the first 30 minutes. This means you can possibly get around the city all day without spending any money on transportation at all. That said, high-end food and clothing prices in Taiwan can sometimes be at US’s level. Intercity traveling is either expensive with the High Speed Rail (HSR), or time-consuming with slightly cheaper options. Internet is also not as cheap as the countries above. Meals: $5 – $10 per day. Some hostels provide breakfast Accommodation: $10 – $20 per night in a hostel (I highly recommend this one in Taipei!) Transportation: “Transportation: $0 – $3 for a full day of bike, bus, and train rides, or $20 – $40 for an HSR ride between cities SIM card with data: $33 for unlimited data with 28-day validity 11. India, $20/day India is perhaps the cheapest country to travel to, but if and only if you’re willing to haggle and hunt for deals. Keep in mind that cheap rooms that run in the $3 range will be very basic and it’s normal to shower with buckets of heated water. You will be hard pressed to find cheap gems in the north, but the south with its gorgeous beaches may prove more fruitful when it comes to budget accommodation. The best way to travel through India on a budget is to book things yourself. This means no agents and no online booking sites (except for some intercity travels. For that, check out 12Go Asia). Similar to Nepal, if you walk into local guesthouses, restaurants, and tour companies, you could easily get the same things in person for half the quoted price online. Meals: $3 – $6 per day Accommodation: $4 – $8 per night in a local guesthouse Transportation: $1 – $3 for a full day of bus and train rides, or $8 – $30 for an intercity train ride (sometimes a domestic flight costs as little as $30, if you want to splurge without actually splurging!) SIM card with data: $3 for 1.5GB with 30-day validity. Yes, it is that cheap! 12. Some Parts of China, $25/day siguniangshan China’s big cities have all kinds of fancy restaurants and hotels that can eat right into your budget in a big way, but in a country this vast, you just need to get off the beaten path for a cheaper yet more authentic experience. Think provinces like Sichuan, Dali , and Guangxi, where cheap accommodation, delicious street food, and unique experiences like having a BBQ with the locals, or riding a bicycle around, can be completely free or very, very cheap. Even in major cities like Beijing and Shanghai, there are ways to cut your travel costs down. Hostels are a great value – perhaps the best in the world – and as always, if you stick to eating street food, you won’t need a lot of money to get by. What’s expensive is intercity traveling, as transportation can run a bit more expensive at $20+ for 8-hour buses and upwards from there. China is a huge country and therefore, moving around quickly and on higher classes of train can add up quickly. If you pick a province and spend a longer time in it, this will not be a problem. Meals: $4 – $8 per day Accommodation: $5 – $10 per night in a hostel or a local guesthouse Transportation: $1 – $3 for a full day of bus and train rides in the city, or $10 – $30 for an intercity bus or train ride SIM card with data: $15 for 2GB with 30-day validity. Don’t forget your VPN subscriptions so you can stayed connected with your social media and Google! READ: A Quick Guide to China 13. Kyrgyzstan, $25/day Kyrgyzstan is the country of choice for most travelers interested in trying out Central Asia, and thus most well-suited to travelers of all budgets. Food is cheap and interesting, so is getting around using the minibuses. Public transportation prices are fixed and is probably the cheapest aspect of traveling in Kyrgyzstan. As for accommodation, you can find hostels in major destinations, and local home stays in more rural places for less than $10. If you are doing a multi-day hike like the Tian Shan Mountains, the tour price should include most things. Meals: $4 – $8 per day Accommodation: $8 – $12 per night in a hostel or a local guesthouse Transportation: $0.20 for a local minibus ride, or $4 for an intercity bus ride – that’s right! SIM card with data: $3 for 3GB with 30-day validity. Though I wouldn’t expect it to work in the mountains READ: A Quick Guide to Kyrgyzstan EUROPE 14. Romania, $33/day If you are planning a European trip that’s affordable and a little bit off the beaten path, Romania is perfect for you. While the country is known for Dracula, many charming towns and free activities remain unknown to most foreigners. Whether you’re taking a long stroll through the medieval villages, or people watching in one of the beautiful parks, Romania is great for anyone after a European experience on a budget. You can also make use of the free walking tours to check out the numerous historical sites. Hostels run $10-$15 per night, food is hearty and delicious (a money-saving tip: Have your breakfast at the hostel, have a big hearty meal for lunch, and cook your own meal for dinner. It’s easy and affordable to get fresh produce from the local market, just make sure your hostel has a kitchen!), and the public transportation is reliable and affordable. Meals: $10 – $15 per day Accommodation: $10 – $15 per night in a hostel or a local guesthouse Transportation: $5 – $10 for a full day of bus and train rides SIM card with data: $6 for 3GB with 28-day validity 15. Georgia, $30/day Georgia is another underrated European destination that’s absolutely beautiful and affordable. Also, get this: most of you will be able to enter Georgia without a visa, and stay for one year. Say what?! Quality hostels at a reasonable price range, a meal at a local restaurant for as low as $3, and a local minibus ride for less than $1 are just some of the great things Georgia can offer to its visitors. What’s more? Entrance fees to museums and historical sites are mostly less than $2.  The locals are extremely warm and welcoming, and hitchhiking is totally possible for short and long distance travel. There are many day trips, hikes, and monasteries in Georgia, that one can easily spend months and not get bored. It’s perfect if you have more time than money. Meals: $10 – $15 per day Accommodation: $5 – $15 per night in a hostel Transportation: $3 – $5 for a full day of bus and train rides, $5-$10 for an intercity ride, or $0 if you hitchhike! SIM card with data: $3 for 1GB with 1-month validity 16. Greece, $40/day sailing greek islands poros Timing is crucial if you want to travel in Greece on a budget. While prices of flights, accommodation and tours have been largely cut down since the country’s debt crisis in 2010, summer months still cost more than others. This means avoiding July and August, which are the hottest and busiest months in Greece. Instead, go a few weeks before or after summer, and you will be able to enjoy Greece with smaller crowds and a lower budget. You can also cut down on food costs by buying fresh produce from the market and making your own meals, since eating out in restaurants can be expensive in certain parts of Greece. A little picnic by the gorgeous beach can be as enjoyable as a lavish meal at a seafood restaurant! As far as activities go, opt for the free walking tours available, and if you are planning to do some island hopping in Greece, plan well and stick with a group of islands to minimize transfers. For any long distance travel, keep in mind that sometimes a domestic flight can be cheaper than a bus ride. Meals: $10 – $15 per day Accommodation: $10 – $15 per night in a hostel Transportation: $10 – $15 per person for a rental car split between 4 people (note: scooter rental costs about $25 – $30/day), or $10-$20 for ferry tickets around the islands SIM card with data: $12 for 2GB with 30-day validity 17. Czech Republic, $40/day As more and more tourists flock to the Czech Republic, or more specifically, Prague, for its rich history and cheaper-than-water beer, prices have inflated over the last few years. However, it is still easily one of the cheapest central European countries to travel in, especially if you go beyond Prague, such as Cesky Krumlov and Telc, to experience true Czech culture at a much lower cost. Local transportation is reliable and affordable, and if you plan to do a lot of traveling, consider getting a 3-day pass for $16. Czech cuisine is very hearty and large in portion. While it’s not the healthiest (most meals consist of potato and meat), it will surely fill you up so to stretch your budget – eat out at a local restaurant for lunch, and have a light snack for dinner. Entrance fees to historical sites and museums can be quite expensive ($18 to enter the Prague Castle), but you don’t always have to actually enter – the hikes up are awesome, and you can always admire the architecture from outside, and pick the most intriguing ones to go in. Meals: $10 – $15 per day Accommodation: $12 – $20 per night in a hostel Transportation: $5 for a full day of tram rides, $15-$20 for an intercity bus ride SIM card with data: $13 for 2GB with 1-month validity 18. Ukraine, $26/day Ukraine is a challenging country to travel in, due to the language barrier and lack of reliable transportation. But if you are looking for an interesting European adventure on a budget, Ukraine is perfect. The main thing that makes Ukraine so affordable to travel in is its devalued currency. At this time of writing, 1 USD = 27 UAH. To put things into perspective, a dorm room typically costs about 150 UAH per night. That’s 6 USD. Bear in mind that this is Europe we are talking about! Food, transportation, sightseeing and other activities are all incredibly cheap for a European destination. Meals: $6 – $8 per day Accommodation: $6 – $10 per night in a hostel Transportation: $1 – $3 for a full day of train rides, $6-$15 for an intercity train ride SIM card with data: $3 for 3GB with 1-month validity 19. Poland, $40/day If you are a fan of heritage sites, Poland has 14 to offer. A country rich with culture and history, it’s a shame that Poland is often overlooked by tourists. It costs an average of $5 to enter museums and historical sites, which is fairly affordable by European standards. Food is delicious and has a bit more variety than its neighboring countries, though it’s still heavy on the calories. The trains are a bit dated but cost very little. Poland is one of those countries where you can easily spend an entire day just wandering and people watching. There will be days when you spend nothing else other than on the essentials. Make sure to eat at a “milk bar”, an affordable yet delicious option that’s popular with locals. Go beyond Krakow and Warsaw, and explore other smaller towns like Gdansk, Wroclaw, and Zakopane, which are all stunning and possibly even cheaper to travel in. Meals: $10 – $15 per day Accommodation: $8 – $12 per night in a hostel Transportation: $1 – $3 for a full day of train rides, $10-$15 for an intercity train ride SIM card with data: $3 for 2GB with 1-month validity 20. Croatia, $40/day If you like turquoise waters, sunshine, and parties, look no further than Croatia to plan your next budget trip. There are thousands of islands surrounding its mainland, excellent weather from May – October, and beach and yacht parties year-round. The essential expenses including accommodation, transportation and food all come with a reasonable price tag. There is also beautiful architecture to marvel at, interesting sights such as the Museum of Broken Relationships, as well as cute small towns to explore. To travel in Croatia on a budget, you need a similar approach to Greece – travel in the shoulder season. July & August are the country’s busiest months, so avoid them if possible. Also, keep your island hopping to a group of islands to minimize transfers. Meals: $10 – $15 per day. Some hostels offer complimentary breakfast Accommodation: $12 – $16 per night in a hostel Transportation: $12 – $15 per person for a rental car split between 4 people, or $10-$15 for a ferry ride SIM card with data: $8 for 2GB with 30-day validity 21. Turkey, $40/day Turkey can be cheap or expensive, depending on what you want to do and how deeply you want to travel through the country. A hot air balloon ride costs around $200-$300, and intercity traveling can be really long and costly. However, the country has a bunch of other bucket list-worthy items that cost way less, and if you plan your route well, it is definitely possible, if not easy, to travel through Turkey on a budget. The stunning Blue Mosque in Istanbul, the breathtaking white travertines in Pamukkale, and the hustling bazaars all over the country are relatively affordable to enter. While the long distance buses are expensive, if you plan well and take the overnight buses, you get to save on accommodation. If you are short on both time and money, just stick with a city or two. Turkish food is delicious and cheap, so that’s one less thing to worry about! Meals: $10 – $15 per day. Some hostels offer complimentary breakfast Accommodation: $5 – $15 per night in a hostel Transportation: $1 – $3 for a taxi ride, or $30 – $60 for an intercity overnight bus ride SIM card with data: $8 for 2GB with 30-day validity 22. The Baltic States, $40/day Lithuania, Estonia, and Latvia are the perfect trio for those who want to travel northeastern Europe on a budget, especially if you like rich history, vibrant culture, and towns that are best explored on foot. Spend a few days to a week in each country to soak everything in, enjoy different things each country has to offer, and venture into the small towns outside of their capital cities, where you will see very few tourists. Lithuania Lithuania is a tiny country that most travelers skip or spend at most a night or two in just the capital city, Vilnius. However, this charming place is not only underrated, but also very affordable to travel in! If you enjoy partying, the nightlife scene in Vilnius is vibrant and fun, and the alcohol is fairly affordable. If you’d like a quieter experience, check out the Old Town in Kaunas, Klaipeda, and Curonian Spit. Bear in mind that outside of the capital city, hostels can be hard to come by, so book in advance or even consider couchsurfing! Meals: $10 – $15 per day. Some hostels offer complimentary breakfast Accommodation: $8 – $12 per night in a hostel Transportation: $3 – $6 for a full day of bus rides within the city, or $15 – $20 for an intercity bus ride. Buses seem to be more reliable than trains in Lithuania! SIM card with data: Get a Baltic SIM card for $7 for 3GB with 30-day validity Estonia Nature lovers will love Estonia – 53% of the country is forested. This also means that activities like hiking and exploring the national parks are plentiful and affordable (if not completely free). The small towns are also great for walking and cycling, so transportation costs can be minimized. On that note, affordable hostels can be hard to come by in these small towns, so consider basing yourself in the capital city, Tallinn, and make day trips to visit them. Meals: $10 – $15 per day. Some hostels offer complimentary breakfast Accommodation: $10 – $12 per night in a hostel Transportation: $3 – $6 for a full day of train rides within the city, or $10 – $15 for an intercity train ride. SIM card with data: Get a Baltic SIM card for $7 for 3GB with 30-day validity Latvia Similar to Estonia, half of the country is covered in forests. There are also thousands of lakes and rivers in Latvia, perfect for canoeing lovers. The best time to go to Latvia is during fall or winter, when you can canoe down the rivers with the color-changing leaves accompanying you, or when Christmas vibe is on full display at the local Christmas markets. One can also easily spend an entire day wandering through the enchanting forests with castles hidden in them (okay, maybe not “hidden” but this sounds dreamier, as castles should be). All of these activities are affordable / free, which is why traveling in Latvia can be done on a budget. Meals: $12 – $15 per day. Some hostels offer complimentary breakfast Accommodation: $8 – $12 per night in a hostel Transportation: $2 – $5 for a full day of train rides within the city, or $10 – $15 for an intercity train ride. SIM card with data: Get a Baltic SIM card for $7 for 3GB with 30-day validity THE AMERICAS 23. Mexico, $40/day Tulum Mexico is full of endless adventures. This vast country is rich with culture, nature, and some of the best food in the world. Though the country does not have the best reputation as far as safety goes, most violence takes place in certain areas, and Mexico is a big country with plenty of safe places to explore. Now the good news? It’s easy to travel in Mexico on a budget. For less than $20, you will be able to explore at least 5 stunning cenotes, like the one in the picture above; for less than $3, you can devour delicious street food like tacos (I LOVE tacos), quesadillas, and tortillas; the white sand beaches are essentially free, and the hospitality? Priceless. While getting around within a city is cheap, intercity traveling in Mexico can be costly, mainly because of how big the country is. The best case scenario is to rent a car, which costs about $30 – $50 per day, and split between 4 people. If you are backpacking Mexico solo, try to stay in the same place for a longer time to stretch the transportation costs out. That way, you are able to travel deeper and experience authentic Mexico, too. Meals: $8 – $15 per day. Some hostels offer complimentary breakfast Accommodation: $8 – $15 per night in a hostel Transportation: $3 – $5 for a full day of bus and train rides, or $30 – $50 for an intercity bus ride (yikes!) SIM card with data: $10 for 2GB with a 30-day validity READ: 7 Amazing Things to do in Tulum, Mexico 24. Nicaragua, $35/day Nicaragua is one of the cheapest Central American destinations to travel in, although it’s not likely to stay that way for much longer. The country is nicknamed as the next Costa Rica, and we all know what that means. For now, the country remains affordable, fun, and interesting so go before the prices go up and before mass tourism hits. For outdoor lovers, Nicaragua is great for surfing, volcano hiking, and diving. For a more relaxing journey, the colonial cities are beautiful to take a stroll in, and there are plenty of gorgeous beaches to lie all day on. Food is cheap and delicious albeit repetitive. There are hostels all over the country so you don’t have to worry about finding cheap accommodation. One thing to note is that there is unfortunately safety concerns in the country, so check the official advisory site and be your own judge before going. Meals: $6 – $10 per day. Some hostels offer complimentary breakfast Accommodation: $5 – $15 per night in a hostel Transportation: $3 – $5 for a full day of chicken bus rides, or $8 – $15 for an intercity bus ride SIM card with data: $12 for 1GB with a 30-day validity 25. Guatemala, $38/day For an amazing Central American adventure on a budget, check out Guatemala. The country is covered in lush jungles, volcanos, and ruins. When you need a break from outdoor sports, its colonial cities will capture your heart with their stunning architecture and cobblestone streets. Local food is delicious and cheap at about $3 for a full meal (except in Antigua, where prices are actually close to US levels). Local transportation can be very cheap but at times confusing and risky. The locals typically take the chicken buses, which are converted school buses from North America, and are the cheapest way to get around. The buses do not have specific stops, nor is there a board with prices on it. Instead, people simply wave the buses down, and pay the collector money. Watch how much the locals are paying and pay the same. Meals: $10 – $15 per day. Some hostels offer complimentary breakfast Accommodation: $10 – $15 per night in a hostel Transportation: $1 – $3 for a full day of chicken bus rides, or $5 – $10 for an intercity bus ride SIM card with data: $13 for 2GB with a 30-day validity 26. Colombia, $35/day A colorful destination with a dark past, Colombia is fast becoming a popular affordable destination. If you are a history geek, you will love the museums and historical sites in Bogota, the Lost City, and beyond. If you are into nature, the Amazon awaits. As for diving enthusiasts, Colombia also boasts some of the world’s best diving sites and gorgeous beaches. With accommodation, transportation and food being so affordable, you will have room for some occasional splurges – consider booking a luxurious villa for a night or two, you won’t get a deal this great anywhere else in this part of the world! Meals: $10 – $15 per day. Some hostels offer complimentary breakfast Accommodation: $8 – $12 per night in a hostel Transportation: $1 – $3 for a full day of bus rides, or $10 – $50 for an intercity bus ride (be sure to check the domestic flights which can sometimes be cheaper than buses) SIM card with data: $13 for 2GB with a 30-day validity 27. Bolivia, $30/day Bolivia isn’t for everybody, but if you are looking for a real South American adventure (on a budget, nevertheless), this is the place to be. You will deal with a handful of long, winding roads off the beaten path, the altitude can be problematic for some, but the adventures are endless. The Salt Flats and Death Road bicycle trip are unmissable, the Amazon is largely untouched, and the country is incredibly ethnically diverse. For things to remain cheap, you just need to stick with the locals’ lifestyle. For instance, you can get a 3-course meal for less than $2 if you eat at a local restaurant. The same goes for transportation and accommodation if you take the local buses, and walk into local guesthouses instead of booking online. The tours to places like the Salt Flats can be exorbitant, but 100% worth it. Meals: $8 – $10 per day Accommodation: $8 – $12 per night in a hostel (try walking in for lower prices) Transportation: $1 – $2 for a full day of local bus rides, or $8 – $15 for an intercity train ride SIM card with data: $8 for 1GB with a 30-day validity 28. Arizona & Utah (for a road trip!), $45/day While the US is generally not a super budget destination, if you are doing a road trip, you can definitely save in some areas and splurge in others to even out your overall budget. For my American Southwest road trip, I spent an average of $110/day, which included a camper van rental, food, gas, camping, plus little splurges here and there. Now, it was definitely more expensive because I was solo. If you had just one other person, you’d be able to split the costs almost perfectly in half. If you had two other people along, take it down to one third and so on. The more the merrier (until you run out of room and start elbowing each other). Some quick tips on saving money: Get a national park pass and for $80, you will be able to get a carload of people into any national park in the US for an entire year. Rent a camper van if you are renting a car. Then your accommodation apart from the van fee can be absolutely free by camping only on BLM land. Cook your own meals! Again, renting a camper van with kitchen facilities will enable this and save you a lot of money Meals: $12 – $15 per day Accommodation: free Transportation: $9/day for a camper van split between 4 people SIM card with data: $35 for 1GB with a 30-day validity READ: The Best American Southwest Road Trip Itinerary AFRICA 29. South Africa, $40/day south africa road trip If you are traveling on USD or Euro, the exchange rate alone will do you a big favor. At this time of writing, 1 South African Rand is equal to 7 cents US. Any hostels/guesthouse/tourist accommodation in South Africa is called a “backpackers”, and they are typically in beautiful settings and each has a unique personality, not to mention affordable too. Food is where the big budget eater or saver can be, as it can get expensive in South Africa. To save money, cook your own food. Grocery stores are plentiful and have reasonable prices. By at least cooking your own breakfast and the occasional dinner, you can save a lot of money. Unfortunately, public transportation outside of Johannesburg and Cape Town can be pretty limited. While there are a few private companies and trains that all provide transportation around the country, the best (and possibly) cheapest way to get around the country is to rent a car and share with 3 other people. Meals: $12 – $15 per day Accommodation: $12 – $15 per night in a “backpackers” Transportation: $9 per day for a camper van split between 4 people SIM card with data: $35 for 1GB with a 30-day validity READ: The Perfect South Africa Road Trip Itinerary 30. Namibia, $42/day sossusvlei namibia Namibia is home to some of the world’s most spectacular views including the gorgeous Sossusvlei, the hauntingly beautiful Deadvlei, and the massive Fish River Canyon, just to name a few. At first glance, Namibia may not seem like a budget destination, as most accommodations cater to the luxury category, and transportation availability from one place to another can be limited in such a vast country. However, you just need to do things a little bit differently to save a lot of money. The most important thing is to choose to camp instead of staying in a lodge. The luxury lodges cost about $50 – $200 per night, but you can camp at their campsites for about $8 – $10 per night. Camping at the government campsites will set you back about $15 – $18 per night. As for transportation, ideally you would want to rent a 4×4 and share it with a few people to split the cost. If your accommodation comes with a communal kitchen, make full use of it as cooking your own meals will definitely save you money. Entrance fees are generally cheap! Meals: $12 – $15 per day Accommodation: $8 – $15 per night Transportation: $15 – $18 per day for a 4×4 split between 4 people SIM card with data: $16 for 1.5GB with a 60-day validity READ: The Perfect Namibia Road Trip Itinerary How Low Can You Go? Low on budget this year? Here are 30 travel destinations that cost less than $45/day to travel in. Find out where you can travel cheaply this year and start planning an amazing and affordable trip! Pin me! The suggested budget above includes basic accommodation, transportation, and 3 meals with a mix of simple breakfasts, hearty lunches, and light dinners, as well as Internet and 1 paid activity for the day. You will need to add on the other costs like shopping, alcohol, little splurges here and there to understand how much exactly is needed. Some may want to dive or ski, which are typically higher cost activities, and some just want to walk around and explore the local neighborhoods. If you are on a shoestring budget, the suggested budgets can be cut down further should you choose to couchsurf, hitchhike, and skip certain activities. Are there any that you would add to this list? Let us know in the comments below!+++5
Hawaii is one of those places where everything just feels different. Maybe it’s the island lifestyle that’s extra relaxing, perhaps it’s the presence of the Hawaiian goddess Pele, the great creatress and deity of fire and volcanoes. Some feel that the Earth’s heart chakra resides in Hawaii. Regardless of what each person chooses to call it or how we experience it, the Big Island of Hawaii is a special, life-changing place. How can you get the most out of your visit to the island? The following are some amazing things to do while you’re there to have an especially transformative experience: Hawaii Volcanoes National Park Four of the active volcanoes in Hawaii are on the Big Island, where Pele’s power is still evident and unpredictable. Hawaii Volcanoes National Park is the perfect place to feel connected to Mother Nature and go on hikes all around the park. If you get a clear night, you can watch the sunset turn into an epic star-gazing opportunity. Pu’u Loa Petroglyphs To get the most out of Hawaii, explore the cultural significance of each island. On the southeast coast of the Big Island, a centuries-old cultural site sits within Hawaii Volcanoes National Park. The Pu’u Loa Petroglyphs make up Hawaii’s largest field of petroglyphs, consisting of more than 23,000 etchings in the hardened lava that also make it the biggest concentration of rock art in all of the Hawaiian Islands. The petroglyphs are believed to have recorded events that took place, geographical trails and movement around the island. Pu’u Loa can be interpreted to mean “hill of long life,” and legend has it that important rituals were once conducted here in order to ensure long life for a newborn child. This site is a sacred and irreplaceable piece of Hawaiian history. Simply marvel in the hundreds of years of history and find some peace out in the open. Oasis Reset & Renew Retreat This six-day retreat in Hilo combines elements like yoga, sound healing, herbal medicine, massage and breathwork to create a rejuvenating and healing experience. The retreat provides three organic, vegetarian, whole-food-focused meals each day to help reset your health and nourish the body. Other activities include island excursions, hiking, self-worth workshops and more. You even get to spend the six days “glamping” in cool pyramid-shaped lodgings. Read more about this experience here! Stay in an Eco-Lodge in Volcano The town of Volcano is just 10 minutes from Volcanoes National Park, yet thanks to the way it’s situated and its elevation, it’s less likely to experience lava flow than much of the rest of the island; plus, it’s high enough that there are fewer mosquitoes around. The best part, however, is the abundance of off the grid, solar-powered and rain catchment-serviced eco-lodges and treehouses available there. It’s my favorite place in Hawaii (original name for “the Big Island”) to stay and close to my favorite coast. Read more about Hilo and why I love it so much on Alamo’s Scenic Route. Puuhonua o Honaunau National Historic Park Twenty miles south of Kailua-Kona, the Puuhonua o Honaunau National Historic Park protects a site which holds significant historical and cultural importance for Native Hawaiians (the word, “puuhonua” translates to, “place of refuge”). Visitors can see a 965-foot-long stone wall which was built over 400 years ago; nearby is a mausoleum that once housed the bones of 23 Hawaiian chiefs, which are believed to have given the site significant spiritual power, or “mana”. Though the bones were removed in the 19th century, the site still has a strong energy and is sacred to the Hawaiian people. Visit the area to feel the powerful energy for yourself. Hawaii Island Retreat On the North Kohala Coast, 50 acres of gardens, groves and valleys await you at Hawaii Island Retreat, a green boutique hotel. Not only does the eco-friendly property provide beautiful lodgings and organic cuisine, but also countless spa and yoga packages for guests to choose from in customizing their stays. Packages like “Yoga in Hawaii,” “Signature Spa Vacation” and “Return to Self,” are just a few of the options. On the property, guests will find an ocean-view yoga studio, an infinity pool, open-air dining, and suites, yurts, and bungalows. Alongside yoga and massage, Hawaii Island Retreat offers wellness classes ranging from chakra meditation and visualization to tai chi, hula and hypnotherapy. This could be just what you need to have a perfectly restorative experience in Hawaii. Puukohola Heiau National Historic Site In the late 1700s, the Hawaiian King Kamehameha the Great set out to build a temple (or “heiau”) on the northwestern coast of the Big Island. Puukohola hill became the location of this infamous temple, one which was to be dedicated to the gods in order to help Kamehameha unite the Hawaiian Islands. When he later accomplished this, he brought an end to centuries of warfare and established a peaceful Hawaiian kingdom. Kamehameha’s men laid the stones for the temple by hand, so the temple’s ability to stand for more than 200 years is simply remarkable, but more important is its role as a sacred place of worship for Native Hawaiians. Kalani Retreat Kalani is an educational permaculture retreat center which was established in 1975 to “connect participants with a richer sense of body-mind-spirit through communion with nature and to inspire all participants to become aloha ambassadors supportive of healthful, sustainable gardening and community living.” The property hosts group and individual retreats which focus on “blissful growth experiences” like healing bodywork, yoga, nature immersion, fresh local cuisine and other unique activities like hula, weaving and plant healing. The holistic, comprehensive approach to wellbeing at Kalani would make a fantastic experience for anyone seeking spirituality or transformation on the Big Island. Swim with Wild Dolphins, and/or Night Manta Ray & Black Water Dive I went with SunLight on Water to swim with wild dolphins on the Kona coast, which was life-changing, as swimming with beautiful oceanic creatures often is for me. The company also offers a unique experience out to swim with manta rays. The late-night manta ray & black water dive duo offers close encounters with the massive rays as well as a front-row seat to the massive nightly ocean migration (called diurnal vertical migration) where countless deep sea creatures swim up from the bottom of the ocean to feed at the surface. These are creatures that most people will never see, but the Big Island’s unique topography allows for easy access. Seeing such unique creatures up close — ones which few people will ever get the opportunity to witness — is awe-inspiring. Looking for a spiritual and transformative experience on the Big Island of Hawaii? Here are 8 amazing things to do, including joining retreats, staying in a treehouse, and so much more. If you are visiting Hawaii, and want a more spiritual experience, this post is perfect for you! #Hawaii Pin me! While a chilled-out beach vacation is always on the docket for island visits, the Big Island of Hawaii offers so much more. The sheer size, the wildness of it and the abundance of nature and activities offer the kind of adventure travel opportunities that few places can. I hope this post gets you started on a fantastic Hawaiian adventure. +++5
The Big Island of Hawaii is the largest, most diverse, and most adventurous island in Hawaii. I know that last claim might be subjective, but, to me, the rugged adventure that the Big Island presents is irresistible, considering that the Big Island (with the exception of Haleakala on Maui) is the last volcanically active island, with 10 of the world’s 14 microclimates, and large enough to fit all of the other islands combined. That’s what makes it my favorite Hawaiian island – and I’ve been to them all. After spending several weeks there, and ultimately deciding to buy property on the island (yeee!), these are the best things to do on the Big Island of Hawaii IMHO: 1. Swim with Wild Dolphins The suggestions in this post will begin in Kona, where I assume you’ll fly into, working south from there and then back up and around the island. What better way to start your vacation on the Big Island than to swim in the bay with beautiful spinner dolphins!? I submit that there is no better way. If you find one, let me know. This is the cheapest dolphin swim trip i’ve found, and with great reviews. It’s a bit cheaper than what I booked for the same experience. 2. Night Snorkel with Manta Rays Swim with dolphins in the morning, then swim later with manta rays at night! It’s hard to think of a better, more adventurous way to spend a day. Since the dolphin swim takes place early in the morning, and the manta swim takes place after dark, it’s easy to do both in the same day and have a nice, long, relaxing afternoon. Manta snorkeling boats will attach lights to the bottom of flotation devices, which attract the plankton that the mantas eat. Watch as these gentle giants slide underneath you. I didn’t do this particular activity since I have scuba dived with many a manta ray, but take it from me, seeing a manta in person is a humbling and beautiful experience. You can book it here. 3. Captain Cook Memorial and Kealakekua Bay The suggestion is really not for the memorial itself, which is a monument to the first white guy who arrived and then was killed in Hawaii (who cares?). However, I mention it because this is where you can access the Kealakekua Bay. This is rumored to be the best snorkeling on the island, and in the morning, you might just see some dolphins. Getting to the bay is difficult – you can hike a good hour each way on a trail that’s hard to find, rent a kayak, which is increasingly frowned upon and only available to companies with permits (try Kona Boys in Captain Cook), or take a snorkeling tour. Because of the difficulty, I haven’t made it here yet, but it’s on my list. 4. Two Step For those who fancy more accessible snorkeling, drive to Two Step. There is limited parking right in front of the tide pools, or a paid parking lot, which costs five dollars. Early morning is the best time to spot dolphins, although you’ll probably want some fins in addition to your mask and snorkel so that you can get out farther to where they hang out. The reef and abundance of fish are fantastic as well. Please wear reef-safe sunscreen! Yo, it’s important to mention that currents and water on the Big Island can change quickly. Water can be rough, and people drown all around the island each year. It’s important that you refrain from going in the water if you have any doubts whatsoever. That goes for every beach on this list. 5. Pu’uhonua O Hōnaunau National Historical Park Just a stone’s throw from Two Step, this historic park has plenty of exhibits that take you through Hawaiian culture and history. It’s easy to self-navigate and takes about an hour to walk through the exhibits. Bring your National Parks Annual Pass for free entry. 6. South Point Cliff Jump and Snorkeling I loved this spot so much that I went back twice! Taking the South Point Road that most people take to go to the Papakōlea Green Sand Beach, instead of making a left where you see the painted car door that says ‘green beach’, continue straight all the way to the end of the paved road. Please do not continue beyond it, even if you see other people doing it, as there are historic artifacts and endemic plants that are trying to grow back. This area is famous for two things: a fairly tall cliff jump, and a giant ball of thousands of glittering fish for those who love free diving like I do. If you want to get into the water without jumping, head to the right of the cliff jump, and you will see some rocks that are climbable. There’s also a cave that you can swim up to, provided that the water is calm and nobody is jumping in at the same time (that said, please don’t jump into the cave, it’s likely to end in tears). Keep in mind that the current is very strong once you swim away from the cliffs, so be vigilant and only go in if the water looks good! It’s best to go on a weekday as during the weekends there are lots of fishermen and therefore hooks in the water. On a great day, though, it really is great. Not many tourists know about it, and the bait ball attracts some bigger fish as well. Keep an eye out for sharks, though. 7. Papakōlea Green Sand Beach Papakōlea Green Sand Beach is hailed as one of only 4 in the world with green sand. Don’t expect to see a forest green beach — it’s more of a brownish hue — but it is pretty crazy to hold up the little grains and see that they are, indeed, green in color. The rare sand was created by the cinder cone next to the beach which was formed during an eruption almost 50,000 years ago. To get there, you can either walk for about an hour along the coast – bring sunscreen – or you can take a high clearance, 4×4 vehicle. I love my Hawaiian 4×4 adventures, but after making it halfway through, I decided to turn back because the road was truly terrible. In a rental car, I was too worried about causing issues I’d have to sort through with insurance later. That said, you can hire a local for about 20 bucks to pile you in a pickup truck and transport you, or just walk. I’d aim for the afternoon to avoid the heat. The sand looks best during golden hour, anyway. There will be fewer tourists around, too. 8. The Punalu’u Bake Shop: The Southernmost Bakery in the USA Let’s be honest, this is a bit of a tourist trap, but if you are a big fan of Hawaiian sweet bread you might as well stop by. 9. Aloha Mix There’s slim pickings for food if you’re making your way over to Hawaii Volcanoes NP or Punalu’u Black Sand Beach from Kona, and it’s a long drive. The food truck across the way from the bakery has acai bowls as well as grilled steak and shrimp plates. It’s delicious! PLEASE: Bring your own cutlery or just use your hands if you eat here. They’ll give you a plastic fork and spoon and Hawaii no longer recycles plastic. Please urge them to stop using plastic as well! 10. Punalu’u Black Sand Beach This black sand beach is famous for the sea turtles who come to rest on it. You’ll see plenty of Hawaiian green sea turtles in the water if it’s calm enough to snorkel. This was one of my more interesting snorkeling experiences, watching as the water got blurry while the tides mixed. It was a mix of cold and lukewarm water with lots of colorful fish, and of course, turtles. You will find that the areas where the turtles are resting are mostly roped off. Hawaiian green sea turtles are endangered and protected, so please don’t be one of those guys who sticks the camera in the turtle’s face to get a selfie, or worse, touches one trying to hitch a ride. But you’d never even think of doing that, would you? 11. Buy some Macadamias This part of the island has loads of farms that produce coffee, macadamia nuts, and even chocolate. You’ll see roadside advertisements from small, local farmers to stop in and try their offerings. This is how I ended up spending $35 on a small bag of coffee. I have no regrets, though – it tastes like honey coffee. How do they do it!? 12. Hawaii Volcanoes National Park The national park is one of the best places to visit on the Big Island for hiking, views, and otherworldly landscapes. As of the time of this writing, the lava flow, which had lasted for 35, years has stopped, so there are no active flows or lava glow at the moment. But you never know what the volcano goddess Pele might have in store! These are some of the best things to see there: Hōlei Sea Arch: On your way down Chain of Craters Road, there are plenty of lookouts where you can see sweeping views all the way up the coastline as you make your way to the sea arch. It would be a great spot for sunset. Nāhuku – Thurston Lava Tube: A super cool lava tunnel – not for the claustrophobic! At the time of this writing, this is closed but they are working on re-opening it. Kīlauea Iki Trail: This is the most popular trail in the park and for good reason. You walk along the crater rim before descending down into it, walking across what feels like a moon landscape. If you have a clear sky, this is an excellent place to stargaze. You can learn more about which parts of the park are open here. 13. Catch Sunset at the Steam Vents The sulfur banks and steam vents are an easy loop right from the  Kīlauea Visitor Center. The whole walk is about 2 miles, give or take, depending on what you add in and cut out, and is a great spot to catch the sunset. Get there a bit earlier, at golden hour, and watch as the sun lights up the steam vents. 14. Stay in a Treehouse The volcano area of the Big Island is the spot if you’re looking for unique accommodation in a lush rainforest. Picture ferns, jungle, and bird sounds. This is my favorite place to stay on the island for nature and the proximity to the national park. Plus, it’s the only spot on the island with a bunch of cool treehouses to choose from. Get a discount off of your stay on Airbnb here. 15. Kehena Black Sand Beach Had to edit a lot of n00ds out of this one Hawaii’s Puna district is in a word, strange. There’s something to be said about choosing to live in a place that could be engulfed by lava at any moment. This is the most volcanically active part of the Big Island, and also the funkiest. But as much as I love the hippy vibe, I can’t shake the menacing undercurrent. That said, if you’re feeling open-minded, this beach is Puna in a nutshell. On Sundays, there’s a drum circle, although on any day of the week you’ll see mostly locals hanging out there with their dogs, family members, weed dealers, and even kiddos. Keep in mind that this is a nude beach, so plan on at least half of the people being naked, especially at the Sunday drum circles. Personally I love this, but I know it’s not for everyone! Swimming can be great here, but the surf can also be very rough. If you don’t see anyone in the water, maybe you shouldn’t go in either. 16. Pepeekeo Scenic Drive Heading north from the beach, enjoy one of the Big Island’s most beautiful drives. You’ll see beachside mansions, evidence of a recent lava flow that took out quite a few of them, as well as rows of enchanting tree tunnels. If you must be irresponsible and stand in the middle of the road like me, make sure you don’t have any blind spots and have plenty of time to move when cars drive by! Given the 2018 lava flow, this road isn’t a loop anymore, so you’ll need to turn back and retrace your steps somewhat. It’s still worth it! 17. Hang in Hilo As you drive through the Big Island of Hawaii, it’ll become evident that not only do the microclimates change constantly, but also the vibe and the neighborhood. Hilo will have a more local feel than Kona, and that’s what I love about it. It’s also much more lush and jungly. There are a few places to snorkel here as well, including Richardson Beach Park and Keaukaha Beach Park, but if you’ve enjoyed Two Step and the dolphins, you might not be impressed. Food and restaurants are great, though. I particularly liked the vegan food at Vibe, poke at Suisan Fish Market, and Makani’s Magic Pineapple Shack for funky flavors. 18. Rainbow Falls and Boiling Pots From Hilo, you don’t have to go far to reach Rainbow Falls and surrounding attractions. Depending on the water level you might be tempted to jump into the Boiling Pots as well, but would not advise it. Get ready, because this is the introduction to a very lush, waterfall-rich part of the island. 19. Onomea Bay Trail This one is best reached early, since there is severely limited parking along the road at the trailhead, or you can pay to park at the Hawaii Tropical Botanical Gardens, which gives you access to their trail, which connects with the Onomea Bay Trail. It might be worth it, considering the Onomea Bay Trail is pretty short, though it does end with a beautiful viewpoint. 20. Akaka Falls Perhaps the most famous and accessible waterfall on Hawaii’s northeast coast, Akaka Falls is truly stunning. It’s a short, easy walk from the parking lot, past large banyan trees and a couple of other, less amazing falls. This place is popular. I got there right when it opened at 8 AM and was able to enjoy it and have it all to myself for a little while, though. Parking is five dollars. 21. Mauna Loa Since Mauna Kea is currently closed, for those wishing for some stargazing, Mauna Loa might fit the bill. You can’t drive all the way to the peak, though you can park at the observatory and walk. Keep in mind this is one hell of a hike. Though mostly flat, it is long, exposed, and at altitude, and you probably will have just come from sea level. That said, just from the observatory you can also get some great stargazing. Keep in mind that this is not an astronomical observatory, but rather an atmospheric research observatory, so tours might not be that exciting. 22. Mauna Kea Mauna Kea under Creative Commons by Kelsie DiPerna Believe it or not, the Mauna Kea volcano frequently has snow on the top! Given the tropical inversion that exists below this mountain peak (inversion keeps clouds, moisture, and air pollution down below so up at the summit, it is very dry and clear most of the time) and lack of light pollution, Mauna Kea is heralded as one of the best places on Earth for stargazing, according to people who measure such things. That has also made it a target of much controversy. For Hawaiians, this is a sacred mountain and home to the snow goddess, and recent protests have closed the summit as a battle wages over whether a 30-meter telescope will be built there or not. My vision of a better world is when our indigenous people have more rights, and I encourage anyone who visits the volcano, once it reopens, to do so with the upmost respect and consideration of the locals. As the locals on Molokai shared with me, it’s not about no tourists, but about the right tourists, enjoying these beautiful areas. All of that said, there are multi-day hiking trails that go all along the area and, provided you practice Leave No Trace principles, I hope you get a chance to enjoy them. Multi-day hiking in cold weather is not a plan most people have for their tropical vacation, so you just might have much of the trail to yourself! 23. Waipi’o Valley Lookout See Maui on the right? Heading back to the coast, as you make your way to the northeast, you’ll drive through beautiful coastal towns, detouring from the highway to head to this lookout. It can be a great spot to catch glimpses of Maui on a clear day, and is a nice, easy pitstop for a beautiful view. If you have a 4 x 4 car, you can drive down to the bottom, or, of course, you can hike. 24. Pololu Valley Lookout and Hike Depending on where you’re coming from, getting to this lookout can mean driving through the gorgeous Waimea and past Mauna Kea or up from Kona through Hawi. Both are gorgeous drives, and the journey is part of the experience. Once you get to the lookout, which is in a great position for sunrise, I highly recommend hiking down to the bottom and then back up the next ridge. Depending on the trail conditions you can keep going, presumably for days, though the last time I was there the trail had been washed out in quite a few places. This is a truly beautiful way to spend a few hours! 25. Hapuna Beach Are you aching for some white sand and a sunset view? Hapuna Beach will take you back to the west, dry side of the island for the perfect sunset. This is a popular beach and you’ll have to pay a five dollar parking fee, but it’s well-maintained and usually is swimmable. If you have a late flight like I did and want to be able to swim and shower afterwards, Hapuna does provide outdoor showers! Please use biodegradable soap and shampoo if you plan to use them. 25 amazing things to do when in Big Island of Hawaii, to help you plan an awesome itinerary and make the most out of your trip. Swim with dolphins and manta rays, hike, relax on gorgeous beaches, and so much more. #BigIslandofHawaii Map Everything mentioned in this post is on this handy Google map: As I’m sure you’ve gathered by now, this island is huge and there’s an almost endless amount of things to do. With so much variety, give this island as much time as you can, and don’t underestimate the distances between places. The best thing you can do is turn this into a road trip and move accommodation as you make your way around the island and if you can, give it a full two weeks. Otherwise, pick and choose the highlights that you love on this list and promise yourself you’ll go back! PLEASE: When traveling in Hawaii, swear off plastic. Take refillable water bottles and shopping bags, and don’t buy items that come in single use plastic, like soft drinks, fruit, bagged lettuce etc. Hawaii no longer recycles plastic or paper! Please help keep the islands clean.+++5
Welcome, fellow solo traveler. This is where your adventure begins. Solo traveling is a beautiful gift. You’re going to learn so much about yourself, make so many fabulous new friends, meet so many beautiful strangers, and see so many vibrant landscapes and skyscrapers, too. The world is your oyster, but the question is, where do you start? When I see lists like these I often just see suggestions for places women should travel to solo based on only one thing: safety. While crime stats are worth noting, they’re not the defining factor for a great place for women to travel alone. The best destinations aren’t just the popular and well-trodden ones, either. Some of the best places to travel to by yourself might be in the places you least expected, or didn’t even know existed yet. The best places will be where locals are particularly friendly and welcoming, or it’s social due to a shared interest like surfing or diving, and even though it might be off the beaten path a bit, it’s not so remote that you’ll be the only one there. It still has that special charm that makes it feel authentic and inviting. Sounds amazing, right? So where can you find these places? I’ve searched high and low, and these are some of my favorite destinations for solo female travel – they might surprise you: 1. Lombok, Indonesia Because it has everything Bali had once upon a time. Many people, myself included, are put off by Bali’s overtourism, where there’s constantly bad traffic, beaches littered with trash, and long waits for photos at popular Instagram spots. So where can one go in Indonesia where there are stunning waterfalls, nice beaches and a social yet laidback atmosphere, like Bali once upon a time had? The answer is Lombok. Not only is Lombok overall a wonderful alternative to Bali, but also cheaper. As a solo traveler, I find it easier to socialize and connect with other solo travelers in Lombok, as people tend to hang out at the same spot, like Kuta, or go to the same beaches. 2. Siargao, The Philippines siargao Because there’s nothing like a little solo motorbike adventure. Siargao Island is a water-lover and general adventurer’s dream. You can go on a little solo motorbike adventure, as the roads are mostly flat and easy. It is also a surfer’s paradise with a playful soul to it, so if you are a surfing enthusiast, or have been thinking of picking it up, Siargao is perfect. The island’s popularity is growing rapidly, but the atmosphere remains laidback and relaxing. This means that it’s just as easy to meet others as to be by yourself. I was able to hang out with surfers on the beach, talk to other people in restaurants and cafes, and retreat to my little corner in an adorable guesthouse every night. It’s perfect! 3. Galápagos Because the animals will keep you entertained. Few places in the world offer its visitors the opportunity to share such close proximity to unique birds, reptiles, and sea critters without them turning fearful, and since most people come to the Galápagos for the animals, meeting people of the same interest becomes super easy. Whether on an island cruise or a dive trip, you are bound to meet like-minded people and have an amazing time together! Prior to my visit, I always thought the Galápagos was effectively off limits to budget backpackers, but I couldn’t be more wrong, as you can absolutely do the Galápagos on a budget! 4. Almost anywhere in French Polynesia french polynesia trip Because its friendliness and hospitality is out of this world. Remember travel before the Internet was so ubiquitous, before Instagram was even a thing, and before the birth of “influencer”? Allow me to introduce you to French Polynesia, where the locals immediately treat you as though they know you, the environment is preserved and treasured by the locals, and you can truly come back to yourself. While Bora Bora may make solo travelers feel a little bit out of place, French Polynesia has way more than that to offer, and I can almost guarantee you that you will have a wonderful time as a solo girl. This is a country I know I will be returning to again and again. 5. Coffee Bay, South Africa destinations for solo female travelers Because Africa isn’t ‘scary’ after all. Africa gets a bad rap as being a scary place to travel through, and while it’s important to take precautions (here’s a list of them), that doesn’t mean solo female travelers should write it off. I love how laidback Coffee Bay (and that whole coastline) is and how many other cool backpackers are always passing through. It’s easy to meet other people, go on long walks along the bluffs on the ocean, and take in gorgeous nature. While South Africa does have a pretty high crime rate, the bulk of it is in the cities. I loved the little towns like Coffee Bay where there weren’t many people or worries around at all. 6. Tofo, Mozambique best destinations for solo female travel I maintain, Africa’s not that ‘scary’. I love Tofo, Mozambique because of the type of adventurous and interesting people it attracts. It seems like most travelers in Mozambique have a cool story, and have arrived by word-of-mouth. There are only a couple of backpackers accommodations there (I stayed at Fatima’s), and scuba dive shops, but both are excellent places to meet other solo travelers. 7. Sunset Beach, Zanzibar best destinations for solo female travelers Beach Bums, Unite. The white-sand beaches and baby blue waters of Zanzibar are legendary, and there’s so much to do there from diving to swimming, boating, and perusing the markets in Stone Town. It’s attractive for a lot of reasons. I remember laughing and dancing at the reggae bar there with Masai warriors dressed in regalia, local beach boys, and tourists from all over, loving how communal and inviting it was. Even if you go there solo, you can find your people. Just lock up your stuff in the safes, as there’s some petty crime. 8. Tokyo, Japan The capital of dining alone. The language barrier may make you feel a little bit intimidated at first, but virtually everything from public transportation to ordering food from a local restaurant is so organized and systematic, it makes traveling in Japan such an easy and enjoyable experience. In cities like Osaka and Tokyo, there are all kinds of interesting things to do, including all kinds of themed cafes, unique museums where one can easily spend hours in, and beautiful parks perfect for people watching. Visiting Japan is also perhaps the best place to master the art of dining alone. Many solo travelers are afraid of eating alone, but in Japan, eating alone is completely normal. There are even restaurants that sell on “low interaction dining”! 9. Reykjavik, Iceland iceland packing list thermals Because it is literally the safest country in the world. Iceland is ranked the #1 safest country in the world by Vision of Humanity, and I can attest, people left their cars running while they went grocery shopping! That’s how sure they are that nobody will steal their car. Iceland’s landscape is so unique and stunning, plus it’s great for a road trip. Reykjavik has social hostels as well, where you can find adventure partners. This guide has everything you need to know about Iceland. 10. Torres del Paine National Park, Chile best destinations to travel solo Perfect for times when you don’t want to hike solo, but you’re solo. Even if you start out alone in the 5-day W or the 8-day O Circuit trek in Torres del Paine National Park, you’ll come out of it with a bunch of new friends. For the same reasons that I loved the Annapurna Circuit, I love the social atmosphere amongst campers and hikers on this trek, particularly on the back, ‘O’, part of the trail where fewer hikers go and the crowds are more intimate. Refugio Dickson, in particular, was tons of fun thanks to the social rangers who played music and organized soccer games. 11. Maui, Hawaii destinations for solo female travel Because it’s for more than just honeymooners. It’s crazy to think that Hawaii would be a good place to travel to solo, but I was delighted to find that there were tons of things for me to do even though I wasn’t on my honeymoon. I made friends easily while snorkeling, found a lot of active adventures, like hiking to waterfalls on the Road to Hana, and found a surf school especially for women as well! 12. New Orleans, The USA Stay entertained! New Orleans turned out to be one of the most enjoyable solo trips I’ve had. I spent a week in the Big Easy, and was kept entertained by the huge variety of things to do. Even when I dined alone in restaurants, the wait staff and the others were totally open to talk, and almost everyone I met had a suggestion for me on where to go next. I never felt like the odd woman out either as I sometimes do in beachy or couples’ destinations. Click here for a complete solo guide to the Big Easy! 13. Montana, The USA whitefish montana SUP Because it is so meditative and relaxing! Montana is the type of place where the locals deeply value nature they’re blessed with, and where visitors can find abundant yoga classes, opportunities to walk among ancient trees, and ample opportunity to relax and reflect. Country roads make way for organic grocery stores, crystal shops, and artist galleries. I was lucky to be able to experience Montana through the locals’ eyes, and found many meditative things to do and places to go, including Crystal Sound Bowl Meditation and standup paddleboarding. travel selfies 14. Québec, Canada The colors! Because it’s one of the safest and friendliest places you will visit. Quite possibly the safest and most scenic place to drive through, Québec is a special place with endless beauty to offer to its visitors. If you are looking for a comfortable solo road trip experience with great accommodation choices, delicious food, and friendly locals, Québec is perfect for just that. Come for the beautiful fall foliage, but stay for the food, hospitality, and uncrowded adventures in a beautiful part of Canada. 15. Iguazu Falls, Argentina best destinations for solo female travelers Because waterfalls are best when shared. Iguazu Falls is one of Argentina’s most-visited attractions and for good reason, I mean just look at that beauty. There are plenty of social places to stay, from mid-range hotels to hostels. A friend of mine told me he enjoyed his guesthouse so much that it took him three days to actually leave the hostel and go see the waterfall! 16. Arugam Bay, Sri Lanka best destinations for solo female travelers Because places that attract surfers are social by nature. This little surfing town on Sri Lanka’s east coast, which doesn’t get nearly as much tourism as the booming south, is so tranquil and chill, it’s hard to leave. Places that have a sport as their main draw always attract more solo travelers, and this little surfing town in paradise is one of them. Extra points if you take the train there, one of the best parts about traveling through Sri Lanka. 17. Annapurna Circuit, Nepal solo female travel destinations Because hikers are friendly people. I geared up for the Annapurna Circuit, a 2-week hiking loop in Nepal, solo. I remained solo up until departure, and didn’t have a hiking buddy until I met one on my bus ride in, picked up two more in the coming days near the top, and expanded the group even further. By the time we finished, we were a group of six. A communal endeavor like hiking tends to bring people together. 18. Along the Wild Atlantic Way’s West Coast, Ireland best destinations for solo female travel Because this is one friendly road trip. It’s the small towns on Ireland’s least populated coast that can be the most social. In a country that’s already pretty friendly, I found that people were especially friendly along the Wild Atlantic Way on the Connemara Coast. Just walk into any pub and within a few seconds someone will be talking to and joking around with you. 19. Berlin, Germany Where you can truly be yourself. Berlin is hands down, one of the coolest cities in the world. It’s like Brooklyn meets San Francisco with an LA vibe. Whatever you identify yourself as, you can easily find your tribe here. The city is filled with creative people, alternative things to do, and delicious food to devour. I never felt like the odd one out being a solo girl in the city, because people couldn’t care less (in a good way). You can dress like a unicorn diarrhea and barely anyone would bat an eyelash. What’s not to love about that? 20. El Chaltén, Argentina best destinations for solo female travelers The most social place in Patagonia. Much of Patagonia, particularly along the Carretera Austral, is remote and quiet, but if you’re solo, El Chaltén is the best mix of nature and social opportunities. The hostels are warm and friendly places, many of the hikes and campsites are well-loved, and it’s easy to meet others on the more trodden hikes. Far from the cat calls of Buenos Aires, I found El Chaltén to be a breath of fresh air. Where can solo female travelers go that are safe, fun, social, friendly and authentic? Here are 20 amazing destinations around the world that are perfect to explore alone in. Some of the destinations on this list may surprise you! #SoloFemaleTravel Pin me! After traveling for over seven years, mostly by myself, I’ve found some really special gems around this world that seemed to have that special something that was missing from many others, and all of these places have that. I was delighted to find, sometimes in places I least expected, that such friendly people and amazing social atmosphere could exist, and that’s the beauty of traveling on your own.+++5
se costs that’s annoying, but necessary should the worst occur.  I went with World Nomads travel insurance which happened to be cheaper than any other company I could find for US citizens. Saving tip: If you know for sure how much time you’ll be away, buying more months upfront is definitely cheaper than extending periodically. 2. Flights: $1500 kelingking On Nusa Penida Island, Indonesia Flights might be totally different depending on where you’re coming from, but I usually end up spending about this much including flights from home and any inter-country flights once in the region. The first time I went, I bought two one-way flights to get from LAX to Southeast Asia and back. In hindsight, this may not have been the cheapest way to travel (I could have saved a couple hundred dollars by booking round-trip), however, I was unsure of my dates and departure city. Sometimes, the penalties and restrictions on moving flights ends up making a RT flight too much of a hassle. Other ways to save are by making your itinerary logical, so that you can take overland transport most of the time and don’t have to cover huge distances all at once. Saving tip: To reduce your flight costs, subscribe to flight deals like this one, especially if you are flexible on the traveling dates. Flights are also cheaper during shoulder and rainy seasons. You can also travel hack like I do to save money. 3. Immunizations: $350 You’re out of luck if you’re an American when it comes to travel immunizations, because chances are you’ll be covering them out of pocket. I personally elected not to take malaria pills nor get rabies vaccinations because of costs associated and unlikelihood of either becoming a real issue. Saving tip: In order to get immunized the cheapest way possible, visit the travel specialist at your local county healthcare clinic. 4. Travel Gear: $400 solo travel Your gear will be your home in the next few months, pick wisely! My backpack alone cost me over $200, but was worth every penny as nothing ever broke and I’m still using it 6 years later.  I also invested in Pacsafe products to keep everything protected, which I do not regret! Check my guide out for essential travel items. Saving tip: Limit your luggage to carry-on only, so you can save on check-in luggage. Southeast Asia is generally hot and humid year-round, so you will only need thin and breathable clothes. Things are also incredibly affordable so you can always buy things you need as you go. 5. Visas I am all about winging it when it comes to a backpacking trip, especially in Southeast Asia. However, if you are on a budget, it’s best to decide on your length of stay in each country to avoid unnecessary visa fees. Here’s a complete breakdown for most nations: Country	Visa Fees	Validity Cambodia	$30	30 days Indonesia	Visa Free	30 days Laos	$35	30 days Malaysia	Visa Free	90 days Myanmar	$50	28 days Singapore	Visa Free	90 days Philippines	Visa Free	30 days Thailand	Visa Free	30 days Vietnam	$25	30 days On-trip Expenses: 1. Food: $10-$15/day 1 month	$300-$450 3 months	$900-$1350 6 months	$1800-$2700 Eating local delights and choosing street food when possible are the best ways to keep food costs down. The food tastes better and costs much less when it’s a local dish vs. a western dish. Why order a disappointing burger for $4 when you could have amazing steamed pork buns, papaya salad, coconut soup, pad thai (the list is endless!) in Thailand for less than $1? If you are staying at a place with a kitchen, you can get groceries for cheap from the local market and make your own food. Note that at certain places, like Bali and Kuala Lumpur, eating out can sometimes be cheaper than cooking. Saving tip: Check with your hostel receptionist for local recommendations. Eat where the locals eat. Don’t fear street food. It’s cooked right in front of you and may even be fresher and less processed than food available at home. 2. Accommodation: $5-$10/day 1 month	$150-$300 3 months	$450-$900 6 months	$900-$1800 rumah pohon, nusa penida Indulge yourself once in a while, though! This really varied depending on high/low season and country. Cambodia and Laos were the cheapest while Indonesia and Malaysia tended to be more expensive and provided less value for the money. Here’s how much you should expect to pay per night, if you were to book a hostel bed a week in advance, and pick one that’s clean and strategically located: Country	Cost/night Cambodia	$2 – $7 Indonesia	$5 – $10 Laos	$4 – $10 Malaysia	$5 – $15 Myanmar	$5 – $11 Singapore	$10 – $18 Philippines	$6 – $15 Thailand	$5 – $10 Vietnam	$4 – $8 3. Transportation: $2-$10/day 1 month	$60 – $300 3 months	$180 – $900 6 months	$360 – $1800 Land transportation is generally very cheap in all of Southeast Asia. Taking an intercity bus typically costs about $10. The cost of renting a bike is around $8-$15/day. On the islands like the Philippines, public boat trips take ages but they are extremely cheap at about $2/ride. 4. Activities: Diving: If you are a diver, you will be thrilled to find many, many affordable diving spots all over Southeast Asia. Prices go as low as $100 for a 3D2N stay with 3 dive trips, though when I returned to Southeast Asia in 2018, I went on a glorious 11-day liveaboard diving trip in Raja Ampat which now costs over $6000. Island Hopping: An island hopping trip with 5-6 stops for less than $15? Only in Southeast Asia. Your negotiation skills will decide how much you pay for your island hopping trip, so negotiate away, and if the price offered does not make sense to you, walk away – there will be 5 more agents down the same street. Generally, you should expect to pay about $15-$30 for a full-day (typically 9am-3pm) trip. Group Tours: A walking tour is often the best way to get to know a new city. There are many tip-based, free walking tours available, and some of them are actually really insightful and fun. It’s the best way to meet new friends too. Paid tours typically cost about $8-$15. Hiking: I love that this activity is mostly free, save for the occasional entrance fee! Even some popular hikes, like Mount Bromo, can be affordable if you do it independently. Cooking Class: This delicious activity runs about $20-$40 for a class. Consider the skills you will gain and the free food you will make. I’d say it’s pretty worth it, especially if you’ve fallen in love with the local cuisine. Popular Tourist Sites: Angkor Wat costs a whopping $62 for a 3-day pass, getting to the sky bridge of the Petronas Twin Towers in Malaysia requires $20, and the beautiful Gardens by the Bay in Singapore also requires you to surrender $20 to enter. Pick and choose what you’d really want to see and factor the entrance fees into your overall budget. 5. Shopping: Toiletries: If you can, buy from the small local stores instead of the big chain drug stores. They are likely to cost less, and you get to help the locals out. If you want to stick with familiar brands like Pantene and Nivea, the cost is similar to what you’d pay back home, if not slightly cheaper. Local brands cost less. Clothes: They’re so cheap and awesome! You can get a funky top for $3, cliche but must-have pair of elephant pants for less than $5, and a beautiful silk scarf for less than $8. Outdoor gear: There are many “counterfeit” hiking gear options available in Vietnam and Indonesia for a fraction of the original cost, but the quality is lacking, too. You can get a legit waterproof jacket for as low as $12, but if you bring it from home, it’ll last longer. Why couldn’t I travel on only $30/day? The $30/day benchmark does not take into account gear, insurance, flights, and immunizations.  It’s also easy to forget that things like soap, shampoo, toothpaste, sunscreen, batteries, adapters, mosquito repellent, medication, and visas all need to be periodically purchased on the road. The cost seems small but when budgeting only $30 for one day, $4 on a small bottle of shampoo can really add up. The $30 benchmark is more than realistic, if not a little rich, when staying in one place for an extended period of time in one of the cheaper countries.  I was able to spend $3/night on accommodation and around $10/day on food and drink in Otres Beach, Cambodia, for example.  I didn’t spend a dime on activities because the beach was free.  But what about the days when I moved around?  What about the times I had to spend $40 on a visa, $9 on a bus ride, and $3 on a water taxi?  My budget was blown before I even bought food or a bed for the night. What about the days that I wanted to visit Angkor Wat, go SCUBA diving, or jungle trekking?  An extremely low budget is only feasible if you hardly move around and never spend anything on activities, but why travel to the other side of the world only to miss out on these things? If I had not SCUBA dived, climbed Mt. Kinabalu, or gone trekking in Bukit Lawang or Mt. Rinjani, I would have shaved over $3000 off of my trip, easily. I also never spent more than a week in any one place.  Had I moved more slowly, I could have saved a lot more. More saving tips: All hope is not lost if you have a smaller budget to work with.  To keep costs low, use services like Couchsurfing for free accommodation. Not into it? Stay in dorms.  They are a great way to meet people and save some cash. House sitting is also a possibility though less so in Southeast Asia. Always travel local instead of by private or tourist coach, even if that means travel days are longer. If you’re rich in time but not in funds, this is the best way to do it. Eat local foods and abstain from alcohol. The biggest budget eater is partying, by far.  If you never buy drinks, you’ll literally save thousands.  Really, thousands! Use a debit card that doesn’t charge fees and refunds the ATM fees assessed by other banks. The only one I’m aware of is Charles Schwab. For a country-specific budget guide on each place mentioned above, I go into more detail in each of these posts: Cambodia Laos Thailand Peninsular Malaysia Malaysian Borneo Indonesia Vietnam Philippines How much do you usually spend on traveling?  Do you have any budget travel tips to share? +++5
Another Year of Adventures with Alamo 12/10/2019 by BMTMTeam 1 Comment When it comes to wonderful ways to travel, there’s very little in my book that can beat exploring a destination in a rental car. This post contains some of my favorite road trip adventures all over the USA and beyond as part of my partnership with Alamo Rent A Car. Click to check it out now! Pin me! When it comes to wonderful ways to travel, there’s very little in my book that can beat exploring a destination in a rental car. I love the flexibility of picking points on a map and driving from place to place, either solo or with family and friends, discovering new things or revisiting old favorites. I find time spent in the car allows for so much sharing, reflection and enjoyment of the surroundings. Over the past couple of years, I’ve had the honor of working with Alamo Rent A Car as a Chief Travel Guide on getting to know my own country better, beginning with Anza-Borrego two Christmases ago with my brother! Since then, my partnership with Alamo has seen the creation of some of your favorite posts on the blog, which is why I’m happy to announce I’m teaming up with them for the third year in a row! anza borrego In celebration of another year with Alamo, here’s a look back at some of your favorite pieces from our partnership over the past two years: The Best Places in the USA for Solo Travel southwestroadtrip In gorgeous Utah When it comes to traveling solo, what are some of the best places to get your full enjoyment out of the experience? I asked a bunch of women to tell me their favorite places in the USA to travel alone and added a few of my favorites as well. From California to Oregon and Illinois, this has become one of the most loved posts on the blog! The Best Girlfriend Getaways in the USA Multnomah Falls girlfriend getaways Magical at any time of year but just look at it with snow! What about when you want to share the experience with your best friends? I know that planning for a group isn’t always easy, so I picked some of the best places that have lots of variety and can be appealing no matter what type of friend group you have. I’ve got outdoorsy options, city vibes, and perfect combinations of the two. Arizona Things to Do arizona itinerary The American Southwest is easily among my top five favorite places in the world. A big part of that is thanks to the beauty of Arizona. As part of my partnership with Alamo, I explored the Grand Canyon for the first time this year and can’t believe it took me so long considering how much I love the national parks! Curious about some of my other favorites? Read the Arizona itinerary here. Yosemite Winter Hikes yosemite winter hikes One would be hard-pressed to find a human on earth who hasn’t heard of Yosemite. The glacier-carved valley is famous for its waterfalls and many trails, but what can you do in the winter there? A lot more than you may think! Read more here. The Best Places in Canada for Solo Travelers Johnston Canyon in Banff National Park Johnston Canyon in Banff National Park Since we covered the best places in the USA for solo travelers, I figured we had to do the same for Canada! Another of my favorite countries in the world, Canada has so many beautiful places to see and epic adventures. Between my favorites and a few other solo female traveler‘s who contributed, these are the best places in Canada for solo females. Los Angeles Weekend Getaways anza borrego Now for some homegrown expertise. Having lived in greater Los Angeles and spending my whole life there until I was 26, these are all of my favorite places to take a weekend to get away from the city. California has such an incredible abundance of things to do, and incredible diversity. This list will keep you busy! For the year to come, I can’t wait to share more about Hawaii, Canada, and more epic places to travel alone. You can also check out my writing on Alamo’s Scenic Route for complementary posts for each of these upcoming topics. I can’t wait for another year of adventures on the road, spent with loved ones and the beauty of my own company. I hope you’ll come along for the ride. *This sponsored post was brought to you in partnership with Alamo Rent A Car.+++5
San Cristóbal, Galápagos’ Best Things to Do 11/21/2019 by Kristin 1 Comment If you love sea lions, you are going to love San Cristobal in the Galápagos! This is also a prime spot to see Blue-Footed Boobies, sharks at Kicker Rock, and sea turtles at one of the may fantastic snorkeling spots. Click for a complete guide to the island, including transportation, accommodation and food guide, plus 12 best things to do on the island. #SanCristobal #Galapagos Pin me! San Cristóbal in the Galápagos was one of my favorite stops of my three weeks in the islands. If you love sea lions, you’re going to adore San Cristóbal. This is also a prime spot to see blue footed boobies, sharks at Kicker Rock, and sea turtles at one of the many fantastic snorkeling spots. The following are the best things to do on San Cristóbal, and the best part is, some are totally free: 1. León Dormido/Kicker Rock AMAZING diving While Gordon Rocks on Santa Cruz Island might be the most famous diving spot, at least that you can do without taking a liveaboard dive boat to Darwin and Wolf Islands, I actually found Kicker Rock to be better. The currents were always changing, which kept it interesting, and there were hammerheads, Galápagos sharks, and lots of baby black tipped reef sharks. As if that weren’t cool enough, we found a huge ball of fish in between the rocks. Unlike Gordon Rocks, this dive site is appropriate for beginners, which meant my friend who is just starting out was able to dive with me. Snorkelers can come on the same boat as well. In the Galápagos, there are great dive operators and some truly terrible ones. I went with Planet Ocean and loved the boat as well as Alex’s professionalism. Expect diving in the Galápagos to be pretty expensive, at $130-$180 for two tanks. Snorkeling is $130. 2. Punta Pitt san cristobal galapagos things to do Spotted in town Though you can see blue footed boobies right in the town of Puerto Baquerizo Moreno, you have the best chance of seeing Nazca boobies, and apparently red footed boobies have been spotted there as well The trip is about 2 hours from town by boat and includes a hike and a snorkeling stop if you’re up for it. It takes the better part of a full day and costs about $180-$200. You can book it in town or ask at your guesthouse for their recommendation for a tour operator. 3. La Loberia san cristobal galapagos la loberia Pinch me This was a favorite snorkeling spot of mine on San Cristóbal because I’m obsessed with sea lions. Though you’re not to approach sea lions any closer than 2 meters – about six feet – sometimes they will swim right up to you in the water! I had a juvenile swimming around and playing with me for a good 5 minutes while snorkeling at La Loberia, and the best part is, it’s totally free. Bring your own snorkeling mask and if it’s the dry/cold season, a wetsuit as well. There’s a small stand near the beach that’s sometimes open to rent snorkeling gear, but it’s better if you bring your own to the Galápagos for ultimate freedom, and gear that works! To get there, either walk from town, past the airport, or take a taxi for $2. Be sure to take down the driver’s number for a return pickup. 4. Playa Mann Another favorite spot for sea lions, this beach is quick to walk to and easily accessible from town. It’s also west-facing, making it a perfect sunset spot. You can also snorkel with sea lions here! 5. Muelle Tijeretas san cristobal galapagos things to do From La Loberia, though I saw this there as well, just with worse visibility Another favorite snorkeling spot, you can easily walk here from town via the Interpretation Center, which is also free. Though I saw a spotted eagle ray and a few turtles, my visibility wasn’t great here. However my friend said it was one of the best spots of his whole trip when he went, so I don’t know what to tell you. It’s all luck of the draw! 6. Mirador Cerro Tijeretas For a nice little hike and overview of Muelle Tijeretas, bear right on the path instead of heading to the snorkeling spot, and hike upwards to this overlook. The path winds through cacti and Palo Santo trees and it takes about 15 minutes. It’s also mostly wheelchair accessible! It’s a great sunset spot as well, and you can do it in flip flops. 7. Playa Baquerizo Care for an even more secluded snorkeling spot? Instead of heading back down after reaching Mirador Cerro Tijeretas, you’ll continue down the dirt path for another 30 minutes or so. Bring decent shoes for this one, and plenty of water and sunscreen. You’ll need your own snorkeling gear, which you can rent in town. 8. 360-degree Tour This all day tour packs in the highlights of  San Cristóbal, and is a good way to see a lot if you’re short on time, though you will be moving around a lot and stopping only briefly at each place. The tour will take you to Rosa Blanca, Punta Pitt, Sardine Bay, Punta Pucana, Cerro Brujo, and Kicker Rock! I would probably only pick this if I had just one or two days on the island, as I like to take my days a bit slower and spend more time in each spot. You’ll see it advertised all over town for roughly the same as other all day tours – $150 and up. 9. El Junco Lagoon One of few freshwater lakes in the Galápagos, El Junco Lagoon can be done as part of a day tour, or independently. Simply wave a taxi down in town and the ride should be about $15. You can also take the public bus from town to the parking lot. There’s a possibility of seeing frigate birds, as well as a lot of fog, so check the forecast before you go! 10. Española Day Trip Though not  San Cristóbal, Española is accessible by day trip from the island. It’s the only island where you can see the waved albatross breed from May to December, as well as loads of iguanas and sea lions. This is also a popular diving spot, and I can vouch, it’s amazing. Not every dive shop goes, and it’s usually offered only once or so per week, but if you get good conditions you can see schools of rays, hammerhead sharks, and Galápagos sharks. I actually went here as part of my week of sailing around the islands, and it was a highlight! 11. Hang with Tortoises at Galapaguera de Cerro Colorado Did you really go to the Galápagos if you didn’t hang with giant tortoises? Even if you don’t fancy yourself a Testudinidae-lover, they are so enormous, it’s hard not to be impressed. Tortoises prefer the vegetation of the highlands, so you’ll need to take a taxi, bike, or tour up to Cerro Colorado to see them. However the breeding center is free to visit! If you want to see wild tortoises, you’ll want to check out Santa Cruz, which, admittedly, is where the photo above was taken. Still, if you only have this chance, do stop by to see them! 12. Playa Puerto Chino Love white sand beaches? Haven’t gotten enough yet while on San Cristóbal? For something less crowded than Playa Mann, take a taxi or tour out to Puerto Chino Beach where you’ll see the usual suspects – turtles, boobies, and sea lions. The journey is about 30km from town, plus a walk from the dropoff point on a path and then over some lava rocks. You get a nice view of Kicker Rock from the beach, as well as lovely bright blue water. This is a nice one to visit after Cerro Colorado, as it’s at the end of the same, and really only, main road. Visiting San Cristobal, Galápagos soon? Here are 12 amazing things to do on the island, some of which are completely free! Get tips on transportation, accommodation and food and plan an amazing trip to this sea lion (and other wildlife) paradise. #SanCristobal #Galápagos Pin me! Getting There You have two ways of getting to San Cristóbal. Either you can fly into the airport (SCY) or ferry over from Santa Cruz. Most ferries leave Santa Cruz in the morning between 6:30 and 7am or in the afternoon between 2 and 3pm. The price is typically $30 though you may be able to score last minute tickets for $25. I’ll be honest, the ferry is my least favorite thing in the Galápagos. The water can be rough and there’s almost always someone puking and someone getting wet from the sea spray. Still, it’s preferable to flying all the way to Baltra and taking a 45-minute taxi all the way down to Puerto Ayora. It’s a lot less environmentally damaging, too. Hey, it’s all part of the experience! Stay I stayed at the Dolphin House while on San Cristóbal and loved the beach view from my room, and the hammocks on the top floor. It’s centrally located and affordable. Eat For breakfast, my guesthouse host recommended Cafe Fresco, who unfortunately were out of town on holidays. However that led me to Muyu next door, which has amazing ceviche. It’s not a particularly cheap place to eat, but it is organic and farm to table, which I prefer. The best coffee in town is at the Sabor Cuencano En Galápagos, near the Dolphin House. My time on San Cristóbal was honestly awesome. It had more sea lions than any other local island, and had a more laid back feel than Santa Cruz. In terms of snorkeling spots, it really delivers, and so much of the best things to do there are free.+++5
The finch eyes me as it inches closer, bouncing around ever nimble and effortlessly. One of Darwin’s muses when he visited the Galapagos, I’m delighted that this little bird is choosing to be so close to me. Anywhere else I would have assumed that it had been fed by careless humans, but not on remote Genovesa Island. This was a sign of the incredible animal encounters that were to come. An awesome guide to the best Galapagos islands cruise in 2020, with everything you need to know about booking the right boat, and a complete itinerary Pin me! My Galapagos cruise took place over 8 days, stopping mostly in places that are only accessible by boat, aboard the S/S Mary Anne. We saw just about every animal the Galapagos has to offer, and some I didn’t expect to see, like penguins and an owl! best Galapagos cruise I LOVE THESE GUYS How should you go about picking a Galapagos cruise and what made mine so special? Let’s dive into what makes for a great Galapagos cruise: The Boat best Galapagos cruise The ship at Isla Bartolomé There are four different classes of boat that you can book in the Galapagos, ranging from economy class to luxury. The Mary Anne is one of the only schooners in the Galapagos, with sails and a luxury sailing feel, and the biggest bonus is, there’s no single supplement fee! That means you can get your very own cabin, with your own bathroom, without having to pay more for being solo. The Mary Anne is considered a first class boat, which means the trip includes a top level naturalist guide on board, ensuite rooms with an onboard chef, and a max of 16 passengers. While luxury boats offer extras like shared jacuzzis and the possibility of larger suites, the boats are often up to 100 passengers, which makes it a hard no for me. Alternatively, economy might have been cool in my early 20s, but I love having my own bathroom and a more competent guide, plus a nicer boat and itinerary to boot. best Galapagos cruise I don’t want to share this! For me the Mary Anne was the perfect size, giving me nearly private snorkeling opportunities, a lovely room to myself, plenty of space to hang out, and comfy and well decorated common spaces to hang with the other passengers, a few of whom were also solo travelers. The other important thing to consider is the itinerary. Some cruises mimic what you can do on land, which is kind of pointless, no? The Mary Anne mostly stops in places where land tours can’t go and has two itineraries to choose from – Western and Eastern. I did the Eastern Itinerary which I can’t recommend highly enough: The Itinerary Genovesa best Galapagos cruise Check out those feet! The real adventure begins after the all-night crossing to Genovesa – aka Booby Central. This is one of the only islands in the Galapagos where you will see both red footed boobies, as well as the largest of the boobies, the Nazca booby. The island is covered in Palo Santo trees, yes, the very same that you may have smelled burning in sacred ceremonies from the Americas, or even ecstatic dance. I burn it regularly to clear the energy in my house. best Galapagos cruise The Nazca booby at golden hour Though it looks like the trees might be dead, in the dry season they simply don’t have leaves, which makes it perfect for sighting the bird’s nests in the trees and down below. This is the stuff you can only experience if you take a cruise, as it’s too far for day trips from any of the main islands. Bartolomé + Chinese Hat best Galapagos cruise I couldn’t believe this was happening! Next we journeyed down to the outskirts of the island of Santiago. Isla Bartolomé is one of the most famous and most photographed rock formations in the Galapagos, rising up dramatically out of the ocean. It’s about a 150m, fairly easy hike on a boardwalk to the top, which gives you a nice view from above. best Galapagos cruise The real star of the show for me was snorkeling around Bartolomé. Immediately after I jumped in, we were greeted by sea lions, followed by groups of penguins chasing tiny littering fish, I also came across a huge stingray. It was absolutely stunning, and probably one of the best snorkels of my life. Next we pulled up in a zodiac boat (known locally as a panga) to a white sand beach, on an island called Chinese Hat, that was full of sea lions. They didn’t seem to care that we were there, but I can’t say I felt the same way, because I was as giddy as can be. If one can fangirl over sea lions, that’s exactly what I did! best Galapagos cruise Hey cutie – my group pictured behind the dozing furball Best of all, October is when the sea lions have their babies, so there were plenty of tiny, adorable pups to hang out with. Rabida Island + Dragon Hill best Galapagos cruise Another great snorkeling spot The next day I woke up to the crimson red sand of Rabida Island and yet another wonderful day of snorkeling with sea lions. The morning began with a hike on the island to see the flamingoes in the lagoon, followed by an afternoon dip and kayak. best Galapagos cruise Pinch me Plenty of turtles came to hang out as well. I wondered if it was still real life. best Galapagos cruise How does this keep getting better?! Tortoises! This is the only day where you’ll feel like you’ve stepped back into civilization. It was a bit of a shock to me, not having seen any evidence of people yet in the Galapagos, which is testament to how well preserved the other islands are. Still, Santa Cruz is worth checking out for its most famous residents – the tortoises. best Galapagos cruise I knew that they would be big, but they were HUGE you guys. And yet, they’re somehow so adorable, despite being older than my grandmother, and yours, too. South Plaza + Santa Fe best Galapagos cruise At this point it started to sink in that my boat trip was closer to ending than beginning, and I have to tell you that the time spent offline, meditating and hanging out with animals who weren’t afraid of me, started to become my new normal and I didn’t want to let it go. best Galapagos cruise This belongs on a postcard It didn’t help when once again upon pulling up to shore, this time South Plaza Island, a bunch of sea lions, which quickly became my favorite animal of the Galapagos, started barking and playing with each other. Then there were the Santa Fe land iguanas on the next island! These iguanas only live on Santa Fe Island, nowhere else in the world. The day finished with a visit on board by the Galapagos owl. Even the crew were taking photos, everyone was so surprised that an owl decided to come by and hang out for a few hours! best Galapagos cruise Española The trip finished with a visit to the southern island of Española, where several currents converge to play host to some seriously amazing sea life. I’d previously thought that it didn’t get better than the snorkeling I had done earlier in the week. Then I swam at Española. best Galapagos cruise Amazingly beautiful Just when I thought it couldn’t get any more amazing, I spotted something lurking below the school of rays – something I’d been very much hoping to see so many times before, yet it had never happened. I saw hammerhead sharks. best Galapagos cruise WHAT?! It was the cherry on top of a fantastic experience sailing around the Galapagos with the Mary Anne and Andando Tours. Click for the best Galapagos islands cruise guide for 2020! This guide includes tips on picking the right boat company, an example itinerary and insider tips for solo travelers. If you are planning a trip to Galapagos, be sure to check this guide out! #Galapagos After looking at a few other options around the Galapagos, comparing more itineraries and looking at other boats, I can’t help but feel like I chose just right. With no single supplement fee, a truly talented naturalist guide, and a fantastic itinerary with pristine islands, I never felt like there were crowds and always felt like I was immersed in nature. In a world where overtourism is becoming more common, the Galapagos, thanks to strict capacity laws and scheduling, never felt crowded or too impacted. I’ll look back on this experience for years to come, so glad that I got to do it. I suspected the Galapagos would be amazing to sail through, but I never expected the abundance I saw there. I hope you go if you get the chance. *This post was brought to you in partnership with Andando Tours. All positive reviews and giddiness about the experience are my own.+++5
“Kristin! You come eat,” beckoned Karl, intent on having me join the Sunday feast his family spent all day preparing. A little shy, I willed myself to eat whatever was placed before me and walked downstairs. Though I’d steeled myself, in the end I was wowed. he table was full of purple taro, and what would become my favorite French Polynesian dish – poisson cru de coco – raw cured tuna cubes in lemony coconut juice. Thus began two weeks of being welcomed everywhere I went in French Polynesia as though I was already a friend. Even better, it was the impetus of two weeks of never having anything less than a stellar, fresh-as-they-come meal line-pulled right out of the glittering blue Pacific. I laughed a bit to myself. Even after all these years of solo travel, I had some trepidation about coming to a place I knew nothing about. It was all unfounded. French Polynesia quickly shot up to my top five favorite countries of all time. But not because of Tahiti. Tahiti is the first stop when you come to French Polynesia. Many tourists stay there, or head to Bora Bora for overwater bungalows. I think they’re missing out. It’s not that Tahiti, with its lush jungles and abundant waterfalls, did anything in particular wrong, it’s just that FP has so much more, so much better on offer. You’ll see this at the airport! To me, Tahiti is a pass-through. But it is worth spending a few days, or maybe just one, to see the jungly interior. If you do, these are some of the best things to do in Tahiti: Is Tahiti worth exploring, or is it more of a stopover? Here are 13 things you can do when in Tahiti to help you decide if it's worth spending more time than necessary on this part of French Polynesia. #Tahiti Pin me! Papeete Market Whether you’re coming in by plane or cruise ship, you’re going to pass through the capital, Papeete. At the market you can find local fruits, veggies, vanilla, and can see people playing music. Eating there is cheaper than in other parts of the city, and it can be a good place to buy souvenirs. You’re also pretty close to the pearl markets. It’s open every day: Mon: 5 AM – 6 PM, Tues-Sat: 4 AM – 6 PM, Sun: 3 AM – 9 AM. From there, you’ll make your way south past Fa’a’ā and down to the next stop. ‘Ārahurahu Marae This one’s a quick stop off of the main road, about half a kilometer down a dirt road, to some old Polynesian ruins. Most of the statues are replicas, but much of the grounds is authentic. The best way to get a good sense of it is to go with a guide because there are not many signs, but if you’re just popping by on your way around the island, it will give you a bit of history. Maraa Grotto But it looks so nice! I have no doubt this place used to be cool. It looked absolutely beautiful in photos, which is what motivated me to visit. It’s pretty easy to access, is well-marked, and is just off the road. It’s also free to visit, which is a plus. However it’s totally blocked off! I believe, due to falling rock, you can no longer walk up to the grottos and instead have to view them from behind a fence. That kind of ruins it for me, although there was a guy there who kept offering to let me take pictures of him and his tattoos, which I politely declined. Water Gardens Vaipahi From there the next major stop is the Water Gardens, which are also free. You can walk through the palm forest, check out the lotuses, and there are even some waterfalls along the trails, which range from 1-2.5 km long. Bring bug spray! That advice goes for all of Tahiti. Teahupo’o tahiti things to do Check out that wave! Teahupo’o is one of the world’s most famous surf breaks – the one you’ve seen on dorm walls (or was that just me going to school in California?), and in surf videos. It’s known as the most dangerous break in the world due to the unique combination of size, power, and speed, not to mention it breaks on a coral reef. If you’re there at the end of August, you can catch the Tahiti Pro Teahupo’o surf competition. In case you’re not ready to shred that way, you can see from the shore with binoculars, or take a water taxi over from the town by the same name. We just flew the drone over to get a closer look, which felt like cheating but also like winning. From there you’ll need to backtrack a bit back to where the island narrows and feeds back into the larger circle. Heading north you’ll pass by a couple of roadside waterfalls. They are not that amazing, I would suggest you keep going or make it a very quick stop. You can’t miss them. Faarumai Waterfall tahiti things to do This one’s nice! When you pull off for this waterfall, you’ll notice that there are three others in the same area, all of which are big and beautiful. At the time of this writing, only one is open due to rockfall at the other two trails. Like most of this list, they are free to visit and not much of a deviation from the route, so it’s worth pulling off to see if they’re open when you visit. They look best after rainfall. Papenoo Valley This is where Tahiti really shines. The uninhabited interior of Tahiti is full of waterfalls, the famous Lac Vaihiria, impossibly green jungle, and jade-colored water. Most people book a 4 x 4 tour to see this part of Tahiti, as it’s not possible to get very far unless you have a 4 x 4 vehicle. While you can book those at the airport, they are all stick shift. With our one day layover, my friend and I rented a cheap car that we could both drive as non-stick shift drivers, and we really felt like the beauty of Tahiti was in the center, not the roadside attractions. Next time, I plan to spend all of my time in this valley. The best way to make sure that you see everything is probably to book a 4×4 tour (here’s a list of the best-rated ones on Tahiti). However if you can drive a stick, and are feeling adventurous, to me it would be tons of fun to do this independently. Fautaua Waterfall This is supposed to be one of the most famous and beautiful waterfalls in Tahiti, inclusive of a somewhat long but nice hike to get there. Nowadays, you’re required to obtain a permit before hiking to this waterfall. You can get it at city hall in Papeete, but there’s a catch, as it’s only open on weekdays until 5 PM. So if you’re only there over a weekend, unfortunately you won’t be able to go to this waterfall, as word on the street is there is a gate preventing you from continuing. This is what kept me from visiting Fautaua. Hike Mount Aorai This is the third highest peak on Tahiti at 2066 meters tall and though it’s a tough, slippery hike, the reward is stunning. There are sharp drop offs and breathtaking views all along the way. The trail begins at Le Belvedere restaurant, a fantastic spot for views, and continues upward for 5.5 miles. Since low-hanging clouds often compromise visibility, more time, two days, is often necessary to complete the hike. There are apparently huts along the way, but this is one might be best organized with a local guide, unless you’re feeling particularly adventurous. Swim with Sea Creatures French Polynesia experiences several migrations throughout the year. In the months of August through October, humpback whales migrate through and Tahiti and neighboring Mo’orea – two of the best spots to swim with them. You can read more here. There are also many stingrays and sharks in the area. Both are friendly and amazing to swim with. You can also see turtles and all kinds of colorful fish on both diving and snorkeling tours, almost all of which take place in nearby Mo’orea. Pop over to Mo’orea Tahiti’s neighbor is stunning and also easy to access via ferry from Papeete. This is where more of the snorkeling and diving excursions take place. While it can be done as a day excursion, do yourself a favor and spend some time on Mo’orea as well. Beaches Not a lot of beaches on Tahiti Let’s be honest, Tahiti is not known for its beaches. However as you drive on the southeastern part of the island there will be several places where you can pull off and explore some black sand beaches. There’s also a public beach at Mehana Park, which you will pass before the grotto coming down from Papeete. Stay in an Overwater Bungalow While Bora Bora made overwater bungalows famous, Tahiti has plenty that you can stay in as well. The following resorts have overwater bungalows with gorgeous views: InterContinental Tahiti Resort and Spa Tahiti Pearl Beach Resort If you want a more local, cheaper, pension experience referenced in the opening of this article, you can meet Karl and stay at Fare Nukumai. At the end of my time in Tahiti, all I can say is I’m glad we had a drone during our day long island road trip. I learned a lot though, mostly that having a 4 x 4 is the best way to see the really cool stuff on Tahiti, and to avoid the buses full of octogenarians – nothing against them but I just prefer less crowded sightseeing – on your adventure. Whether that means taking a tour or self driving, I think the real adventure lies in the center. All that said, there are so many islands in French Polynesia, you’re doing yourself a disservice if you don’t explore them. If you’re like me, the farthest and more most rural ones are going to be your favorites. I can’t wait to go back and explore more of French Polynesia, the friendliness and natural beauty are hard to beat. +++5
Today, it seems that Bali is the closest thing a traveler can get to “paradise,” or at least the travel industry has made it seem so. Yet many are frustrated when they arrive to traffic jams, beaches littered with trash, and waits for photos at popular Instagram spots. The reality is, Bali gets a staggering number of visitors. According to the Bali Hotels Association, Bali saw more than 6 million international tourists in 2018. Among the largest numbers of visitors per country was the United States, with nearly 240,000 visitors that year, but pales in comparison to China, which had a whopping 1.4 million. The island saw a 6.6% increase in tourism numbers from 2017 to 2018. indonesia solo travel A rare sight in Bali The BHA also provides statistics from over the last two decades. Bali saw roughly 2 million international tourists in 2008; this number grew to 3.3 million in 2013, then to 6.1 million in 2018. So let’s crunch some numbers: Bali tourism tripled over ten years. Over the five-year period from 2008 to 2013, the number of international tourists increased by 65%, while over the five-year period from 2013 to 2018, that count increased by 85%. Basically, the numbers show no signs of Bali tourism slowing down. According to CNN, overtourism not only leads to annoying crowds, but strains local resources and wreaks havoc on the environment. The crazy numbers of tourists have left a serious footprint in Bali, largely contributing to a “garbage emergency” on the island’s beaches. So what does this mean? It means that the tourism and travel industry as a whole needs to re-evaluate the way we do what we do. We need to prioritize the health of awe-inspiring places like Bali over our own vacation selfies. And that’s not to say that we should stop traveling — of course not! What it does mean, though, is that it’s time we consider taking the road less traveled so as to have gentler effects on both the destinations we visit and the people who actually live there. For example, Indonesia is made up of more than 17,000 islands, nearly 6,000 of which are inhabited, yet a third of all Indonesia’s tourism in 2017 only went to Bali. There are so many other islands in Indonesia to explore, not to mention the countless destinations around the globe that offer sandy beaches and blue waters, too. A beautiful day NOT in Bali With that said, here are ten destinations which serve as fantastic alternatives to Bali. Visiting these places can help to create a healthier and more stable tourism industry on the island of Bali, as well as bring tourism-fueled prosperity to other places. Choosing an alternative destination can even provide you with a more unique and authentic travel experience than you would find at an overtouristed location. If you’re set on visiting Indonesia, but are open to choosing a different island, try: Lombok, Indonesia tiu kelep Lombok has amazing waterfalls Lombok is the Indonesian island right next to Bali, home to beautiful sandy beaches, waterfalls, rice fields, and even a volcano. It also gets less rain than Bali does in the rainy season. Lombok’s southern beaches are some of the best in Indonesia for waves, and even though Kuta is Lombok’s most-visited town, you will be amazed at the privacy and serenity that come from the sheer lack of crowds. Kuta is a great place to start, thanks to its proximity to Lombok International Airport, followed by chasing waterfalls up north, trekking Rinjani volcano and visiting the Gilis – three small islands off the coast with their own distinct atmospheres. Thousand Islands, Java, Indonesia Over-Tourism in Bali & 10 Destinations to Visit Instead The Thousand Islands offer plenty of white sandy beaches and bright blue waters Another location only a short distance from Bali is the Thousand Islands, a cluster of 110 islands in the Bay of Jakarta. The islands all have white sandy beaches and clear waters perfect for snorkeling and scuba diving. Elevon of the islands are available to tourists, which means that the population of both locals and tourists is spread out, making for a very tranquil getaway. It’s the perfect destination if you like to island hop. Tanjung Lesung, Java, Indonesia Over-Tourism in Bali & 10 Destinations to Visit Instead Awesome surfing on Java Tanjung Lesung is located in the province of Banten on the western coast of Java, about a three-hour drive from Jakarta. It offers one of the best beaches near the Indonesian capital thanks to its swimmable waters, good surfing, and 9-mile stretch of white sand. It also boasts beautiful coral reefs, which make for great snorkeling and diving. Tanjung Lesung still has much of that cultural authenticity many tourists desire, and it even serves as the perfect jumping-off point to explore the volcanic island of Krakatau. If you’re thinking of checking on Bali for surfing, consider Java, or Sumbawa below, next. Sumbawa, Indonesia kuta Sumbawa, Indonesia’s hidden paradise Lombok’s next door neighbor, Sumbawa, is perhaps one of the least-visited places in Indonesia. Not only is Sumbawa an amazing spot for surfing, the island is home to the still-active volcano Mount Tambora, as well as waterfalls, pristine beaches and beautiful blue waters. Visitors to Sumbawa will find the culture to be authentic to Indonesia as a whole, yet unique to the island itself. The best way to get there is to take a ferry from Lombok’s east coast. Morotai, North Maluku, Indonesia Over-Tourism in Bali & 10 Destinations to Visit Instead The line between the jungle and the white sand makes for an interesting contrast on the Maluku Islands Morotai is one of eastern Indonesia’s Maluku Islands. Interestingly, the island played a role in World War II, acting as an Allied base in the fight in the South Pacific. Today, Morotai is home to countless diving spots where scuba divers can see the marine diversity of the reefs and even swim with harmless sharks. Morotai is certainly more rugged and forested than many other Indonesian islands, but the resulting natural beauty is awe-inspiring. And in true island fashion, the beaches on Morotai are gorgeous. If you’re a scuba diver, check out Raja Ampat while you’re in the area. It’ll blow your mind! Instead of Bali, here are 10 great alternative destinations in Indonesia (and beyond) that are off the beaten path, less crowded and perhaps more enjoyable. Click to see what your options are now! #Indonesia Pin me! If you’re open to something different from Indonesia, check out these destinations in other countries: Koh Yao Noi & Koh Yao Yai, Thailand Koh yao yai Had this almost all to myself These two islands in southern Thailand are mostly locals-only islands, with a very small number of tourists. Koh Yao Noi boasts beaches and waterfalls that can be explored on bicycle or motorbike, and experienced rock climbers will love the rugged terrain. Neighboring Koh Yao Yai is equally as beautiful and untouched. It has warm, clear waters, a relaxed and peaceful atmosphere, and a few eco-resorts. Koh Yao Noi and Koh Yao Yai are hidden gems compared to more touristy destinations in Thailand like Phuket. Koh Chang, Thailand Tranquility at its best in Koh Chang, Thailand Not only do Koh Chang‘s affordability, friendly locals, and abundance of attractions make it a fantastic island getaway in general, they make it the perfect alternative to Bali. The island’s warm waters are just right for snorkeling and scuba diving, and with countless beautiful beaches, you’re sure to feel like you’ve arrived in paradise. There is no shortage of activities at hand, either, as Koh Chang is one of Thailand’s largest islands, second only to Phuket. Plus, many of Koh Chang’s foreign visitors are young, free-spirited solo travelers, which makes the island an awesome destination for your own solo trip. Cook Islands Over-Tourism in Bali & 10 Destinations to Visit Instead Looks like paradise! This chain of 15 islands in the South Pacific screams, “relaxation,” but still has an adventurous side. From rugged mountains and limestone caves to coral reefs and blue lagoons, the small and remote Cook Islands has more to do than meets the eye! The country is known worldwide for fantastic snorkeling & scuba diving in its crystal clear waters. Mountainous Rarotonga is the largest island, home to capital city Avarua, while Aitutaki boasts sandy islets, and Atiu offers the chance to explore island caves. Whether you’re looking to kick back or venture out, the Cook Islands is sure to make a great alternative to Bali. Tioman Island, Malaysia Over-Tourism in Bali & 10 Destinations to Visit Instead A beautiful sunset over Tioman Island Tioman Island sits off the east coast of mainland Malaysia in the South China Sea. The island is a nature reserve and marine park due to its incredible biodiversity, as Tioman is equal parts tropical rainforest, sandy beach, and coral reef. The island is home to some amazing snorkeling and diving spots, and even a few shipwrecks! From catching a wave on your surfboard to trekking through the jungle and chasing waterfalls, Tioman offers countless adventures. Different kinds of resorts on the island also ensure that you’ll be able to create a trip that suits your travel style. Samoa Over-Tourism in Bali & 10 Destinations to Visit Instead Quaint beach huts in Samoa From the colonial-style capital city of Apia to the caves, blowholes, and lava fields on the big island of Savai’i, the two main islands & seven smaller islands of Samoa each have their own unique personalities. Samoa is surely one of the most culturally authentic experiences on this list, as it is less of a tourist destination than many other locations in the South Pacific. The islands, of course, boast white sand beaches, blue lagoons, and diving and surfing along the coast, but with the added allure of rainforests, rivers, and waterfalls, and even flea markets. Samoa is sure to be a trip which is equal parts relaxing and engaging. While these are just a few of the great alternatives out there to Bali, there are so many more within Southeast Asia, the South Pacific, and Indonesia itself. Often, it only takes a bit of off the beaten path exploration to find the perfect island paradise. I encourage you to see what else is out there even if your heart is set on Bali. You might be pleasantly surprised.+++5
“We three, we wait for you under the coconut tree. My echo, my shadow, and me.” The lyrics float over the honeyed sounds of the ukulele while Mama’s young niece dances to the tunes. She wrote the lyrics herself and it’s the first time the little girl is performing to the song. She wears tropical flowers in her hair and moves as if inspired by water and wind. This island feels like Eden, where the fishermen only need lines and spear guns, and the fruit trees are beyond prolific. I didn’t know I could happily eat seafood every single day until I came here. keep travel spot secret Breathtaking Now I’m smiling while I chew the coconut meat and pull the husk shards out of my mouth. It’s soft and fatty – the perfect chaser for the exquisite coconut water. Mama’s cutting more coconuts with a machete, wielding it with ease after my friend tried a few times before backing away, announcing he’d rather keep all of his digits. I almost have to tell her to stop – there’s only so many coconuts that we can eat, but then again, there’s something so alluring about the possibility of more. Later we’re driving in the back of the pickup truck. A full harvest moon glitters down on the mighty Pacific below – the same break I swam with humpbacks in all day. keep travel spot secret I have no words “Wouldn’t it be amazing if a whale swam right into the light?” my friend said. And then it happened, of course. Minutes later I’m watching the locals of all ages perform Tahitian dancing at church. It’s playful, to heavy beats from the drums, and it’s beautiful. All of the praises are in the local language, so if I didn’t already know I was at a church function, I wouldn’t realize it since there’s no other indication. There must be at least a hundred families there for the event. It’s not for tourists, and there aren’t many at all, but I’m welcome and it feels good. This whole island feels good. It’s like I’ve been searching for it my whole life. Do you talk about these places? After seeing the ones you once loved turn into the touristy versions of what they once were – the culture is gone and people queue up for ‘the’ Instagram shot – isn’t it logical to go quiet sometimes? This is my conundrum lately. I’m quickly losing the desire to see the places that everyone photographs, sitting on the same spot, wearing a dress, and clutching a wide-brim hat. I feel so grateful for being able to travel before the Internet was so ubiquitous. Before Instagram was really a thing, and ‘influencer’ hadn’t been coined yet. How different would it have been for me if I didn’t take weeks at a time off the grid, wearing nothing but hippie pants and embracing the lack of perfection? Ditching shoes for the sand, forgetting makeup, and getting enveloped in the moment? So when I find those places where the Wi-Fi barely works, I’m forced to revisit my high school French, and the locals immediately treat me as though they know me, I put it in a little pocket in my heart and keep it there. Maybe some things – only a few – aren’t meant to be shared. Maybe we are meant to keep a few places sacred, to encourage others to remember how beautiful it used to be when we just stumbled upon things. To remind our own selves that traveling is about discovering, not necessarily in knowing what’s there, and taking pleasure in the finding out. So I hope you don’t mind, but I’ll never name this place. If you find it, you’ll know why. And if you don’t, then you’ll find your own place to keep in your heart’s pocket. We all need a treasured hideaway like that.+++5
The Perfect California Romantic Weekend Getaway 08/22/2019 by Kristin 1 Comment Time for a girlfriend/romantic weekend getaway? Check out The Inn at Newport Ranch, which have 20 miles of coastal trails, Redwood trails, and ample panoramic views. History buffs will love it, too, for its wealth of California history. Click for more photos and start planning your weekend trip! #RomanticGetaway #GirlfriendGetaway #Weekendgetaway These misty mornings on the Northern California coast feel like a dream. When dark little eyes of curious seals pop up from the water, a clear pane of glass to the mysteries below. Spouts go off in a symphony in the distance, and birds glide above and float in the calm waves. The jagged rocks, golden spires carved by the ocean, reveal themselves then hide again as the mist moves in and out. It’s like we’re on a movie set, if only movies were perfect. But to me, the Lost Coast is. There’s a reason why I’ve returned 6 times. California might be known for movie stars and the Golden Gate Bridge, but there’s a quiet place, home to coast redwood trees (who chose their spot wisely, IMO) a few hours north of San Francisco. There’s a quietness to it that I find seductive. It’s where some of my fondest memories live. california romantic weekend getaway inn at newport ranch On a misty morning This summer I went back to the area, but this time to a new place called Newport Ranch, just north of Fort Bragg. The Inn at Newport Ranch seemed perfect for a girlfriend getaway, and it was, but I realized when I was there that it would be truly perfect for a romantic weekend getaway, too. I don’t think it gets better in terms of an escape for two, away from people, crowds, traffic, and worries. The Inn at Newport Ranch is situated on 2000 acres right on the coast. They have 20 miles of coastal trails, redwood trails, and ample panoramic views. History buffs will love it, too, for its wealth of California history. california romantic weekend getaway inn at newport ranch The inn, perched right on the coastline It’s the kind of place where you’ll see plenty of seals, birds, maybe whales, and certainly cows (there are bears and deer too, but they’re good at hiding), and maybe only a few other people all day. As our local guide, Otis, said, “If I pull up to a beach and there’s anyone else there, I just pick another one.” You rarely have to share. How lovely to find places where overtourism doesn’t exist. meditation practice Shinrin-yoku Good for the soul I was so in love with the rooms, too, which featured rows of redwood trees inside, worked into the architecture. It’s clear that whoever designed these rooms had the perfect mix of the history, landscape, and modern luxury in mind. We were in the Newport suite, which had a huge bathroom with a walk-in shower, a sitting area, its own full kitchen, a fireplace, and its own hut tub with a view of the, honestly perfect, organic garden and ocean. The hut tub was situated in such a way that it’s mostly hidden from view, and you have your own patio as well. It was a magical home away from home that felt modern and yet took us back in time. inn at newport ranch The stunning coastline My highlight was the ATV tour we did with Otis, who has grown up and lived near this ranch for most (maybe all?), of his life. He took us all along the coast to point out the perfect spots for us to have a picnic lunch and walk out along a huge rock bridge that went out into the sea. His knowledge of the history of the area was incredible. As we would find out when we headed into the redwood forest, so was his knowledge of the fauna. http://theinnatnewportranch.com/ The perfect spot to come back to As the tour progressed we all got more and more enthusiastic about the area and like sponges, soaked up all we could learn from Otis about the trees, the mushrooms that grew in the area — we even foraged for oyster mushrooms — the logging history, and the ways that the area is being preserved today. Next year, Otis plans to plant 2000 new redwood trees, an impressive feat considering there are already so many thriving in the forest. inn at newport ranch Our mushroom foraging and some garden gems The tour culminated with a stop at the organic garden, which was a colorful, delicious menagerie of edible flowers, several types of kale, all kinds of squash, artichokes, strawberries, and so much more I’m surely forgetting. The garden is open to guests, and is designed like a maze to keep you exploring. We loved it so much we went back three times! Following the tour, it was perfect to wander along the coastal trails and marvel at the bright starfish clinging to the rocks, the abundance of mussels, sea plants, and of course, the curious seals. I couldn’t believe how clear and blue the water was there. It’s not the murky California I thought I knew. This was as clear as the Caribbean. inn at newport ranch Our organic dinner that night I could just imagine going back with a significant other. There was nobody else around – just us exploring, marveling, and enjoying. Though we loved the organic garden and having our own kitchen, the food at the Inn was fantastic, as was the service. Each night there are happy hour drinks (and even mocktails for me!) available for everyone staying there – a chance to talk to the other guests if you wish. Dinner is served at your own private table or at a long shared table with the others. It’s a nice chance to meet everyone and get some social time to balance out the peaceful time alone. The food is all local, organic, and expertly prepared. Breakfast is incredible too, with multiple options including gluten free and vegan. inn at newport ranch Had such an amazing time with my college besties While it was the perfect girlfriend getaway, the Inn at Newport Ranch is a place I want to return to next time for a romantic weekend. They also host plenty of weddings, which comes at no surprise given the beautiful location and abundance of wildflowers in the spring. It’s hard to think of a place that’s more peaceful than the Lost Coast. I haven’t found one yet, but that’s just fine, because I don’t mind returning again and again. You can book your stay here. Click to read what makes The Inn at Newport Ranch the perfect place for a weekend getaway for you and your girlfriends/romantic partner! Gorgeous rooms, 20 miles of coastal trails, Redwood trails, and ample panoramic views await. #Weekendgetaway #GirlfriendGetaway #RomanticGetaway *This review was brought to you in partnership with the Inn at Newport Ranch who provided my stay. My love for the Ranch is all my own, though. I fully recommend this beautiful place.+++5
Iceland is a country that can experience several different kinds of weather within one day, or even within one hour! One moment the sun will be shining and the next, you’ll be driving through a storm of hail, wind, and rain. In fact, the wind is so strong, it can blow a car door right off its hinges, seriously! Regardless of the time of year (I’ve been in October and July), bringing waterproof clothing that can protect you from the wind, and potentially snow and hail, is essential to your comfort while traveling through Iceland. Thankfully, the Gulf Stream keeps Iceland’s temperatures from plummeting much below freezing in the winter but its latitude also means that even in the summer, temperatures don’t get much higher than 50°F/10°C. The great thing about the varied weather is it makes Iceland incredibly green and beautiful. Thanks to the rain, often followed directly after by sunlight, it’s the land of waterfalls and rainbows. Who doesn’t love waterfalls and rainbows? Personally, I’ve never met anyone who doesn’t smile at both. So how do you pack for a place that experiences so many different types of weather in one day? Bring layers, and make sure your clothes are waterproof! Here’s the ideal Iceland packing list for any time of year: 2 warm, lightweight undershirts (I also have it in grey) 1 rain jacket (Summer) 1 puffy vest 1 Jacket + alternative (Winter) 2 pairs fleece-lined leggings (Fall + Winter) 2 pairs normal leggings (Summer) 4-5 thin shirts (I recommend this and this as well) 2 thermal shirts 1-2 sweaters 1 bathing suit 1 pack towel Gloves and hat 1-2 pairs snow boots (Fall +Winter) 1 pair waterproof boots (Spring + Summer) Enough socks and undies for your whole trip Camera bag Let’s dive into the specifics: Fall/Winter: Warm, waterproof jacket iceland packing list At the Jökulsárlón Glacier Lagoon A good jacket is the most important thing, apart from good footwear, that you will pack for your trip to Iceland. If you go any time other than the height of summer, chances are good that you will experience freezing temperatures, especially if you head to the highlands, so something warm that keeps out moisture is essential. During my first trip, we encountered nearly 48 hours of straight rain and snow, so a jacket that got soaked easily would have been a real drag. I was so glad to have my warm jacket along with me, plus, the red was the perfect color for standing out against the background! iceland packing list In Landmannalaugar – Iceland’s Highlands I spent €250 on my jacket at a department store in Berlin. Online, it’s only available in Sweden, but here’s a jacket that is almost exactly the same and might even a bit cheaper. It comes in black, too! High-quality, waterproof snow boots iceland packing list Hanging out in Krýsuvík, Iceland The other item to allot more of your packing budget to is snow boots. These will keep your feet warm and dry, and high-quality ones will stand the test of time, too! I brought two pairs along with me and was glad I did. Though they kept the water out for the most part, that time I was jumping across freezing rivers of water in Landmannalaugar and couldn’t quite clear the water, I dunked my entire leg and was very glad that I had a dry pair of boots back in the camper van. My pairs are wool-lined UGG Brand Elsa boots, and the pair I’m wearing above are a few seasons old, but are just like Sorel’s version which comes in tons of adorable colors and sizes. Warm with fleece-lined leggings iceland packing list Love the fleece-lined leggings! My fleece-lined leggings were perfect for keeping my legs just warm enough for the temperatures in Iceland, which were right around freezing for most of the time that I was there in October. Thankfully, they’re also super cheap, so I got several pairs of bright and flashy ones and a few black and blue ones, and wore them during the whole trip. You can find a bunch of options here and here. Spring/Summer Rain jacket iceland packing list Perfect jacket for chasing waterfalls If you’re going in spring or summer, you might not need a super heavy duty snow jacket, but a rain jacket shell is a good idea, and layers that you can put on or take off underneath. I like bright colors, so I brought along a pink shell and wore my thermal layers underneath, which worked out perfectly. Packing for your trip to Iceland can be confusing. The climate in Iceland is so diverse, and no matter the time of the year, you will need waterproof clothing and layers. This packing list for Iceland works for anytime of the year, and includes insider tips to help you pack light and comfortably for your trip to Iceland. Click to read now. #Iceland #IcelandPackingList Pin me! Waterproof boots Since you’re unlikely to experience any snow in the late spring or summer months (but you never know, of course!), bringing waterproof boots is a good alternative. If you’re doing any hiking, you’ll definitely want them, but even if you’re just walking around the waterfalls, boots that keep out the moisture and have good tread are very helpful for the slippery rocks. I like the Montara boot for all of my hiking trips, but if you want something with a bit more style, Doc Martens would work well, too. All Weather Fleece-lined beanie and gloves You lose so much warmth through your head, so a fleece-lined beanie is a great way to stay toasty and luckily, they’re also very cheap. You can find a bunch of great options in every color here, and patterned ones here. I also keep a pair of rainbow gloves on hand for when night falls. They’re lined with fleece and though I bought mine in the Himalayas in Nepal, you can get a pair here for cheap. Thermal shirt iceland packing list thermals Love the Patagonia thermals. They’re thin, but very warm and last forever. The key to staying warm when you hit cooler temperatures and then shedding layers when it gets warmer are cheapie, easy thermals that you can mix and match and layer underneath your jacket. Bathing suit iceland packing list blue lagoon Don’t forget a bathing suit! One of the coolest things to do while in Iceland is visit the public swimming pools, which are super popular with the locals. Just about every town, no matter how small, seems to have one. They have showers and pools of varying heat up to 104°F/40°C, and are a great way to unwind after a day of adventures. What’s more, you’ll definitely want a suit for your visit to the Blue Lagoon. Additionally, be sure to bring along a pair of jeans or pants, a thick scarf, lots of warm and thick socks, ample undies, lots of thin, long-sleeved shirts to layer, a few pairs of normal leggings to layer or wear on their own in case it’s a bit warmer during the day, and a camera bag with a waterproof sleeve.+++5
Iceland is a country that can experience several different kinds of weather within one day, or even within one hour! One moment the sun will be shining and the next, you’ll be driving through a storm of hail, wind, and rain. In fact, the wind is so strong, it can blow a car door right off its hinges, seriously! Regardless of the time of year (I’ve been in October and July), bringing waterproof clothing that can protect you from the wind, and potentially snow and hail, is essential to your comfort while traveling through Iceland. Thankfully, the Gulf Stream keeps Iceland’s temperatures from plummeting much below freezing in the winter but its latitude also means that even in the summer, temperatures don’t get much higher than 50°F/10°C. The great thing about the varied weather is it makes Iceland incredibly green and beautiful. Thanks to the rain, often followed directly after by sunlight, it’s the land of waterfalls and rainbows. Who doesn’t love waterfalls and rainbows? Personally, I’ve never met anyone who doesn’t smile at both. So how do you pack for a place that experiences so many different types of weather in one day? Bring layers, and make sure your clothes are waterproof! Here’s the ideal Iceland packing list for any time of year: 2 warm, lightweight undershirts (I also have it in grey) 1 rain jacket (Summer) 1 puffy vest 1 Jacket + alternative (Winter) 2 pairs fleece-lined leggings (Fall + Winter) 2 pairs normal leggings (Summer) 4-5 thin shirts (I recommend this and this as well) 2 thermal shirts 1-2 sweaters 1 bathing suit 1 pack towel Gloves and hat 1-2 pairs snow boots (Fall +Winter) 1 pair waterproof boots (Spring + Summer) Enough socks and undies for your whole trip Camera bag Let’s dive into the specifics: Fall/Winter: Warm, waterproof jacket iceland packing list At the Jökulsárlón Glacier Lagoon A good jacket is the most important thing, apart from good footwear, that you will pack for your trip to Iceland. If you go any time other than the height of summer, chances are good that you will experience freezing temperatures, especially if you head to the highlands, so something warm that keeps out moisture is essential. During my first trip, we encountered nearly 48 hours of straight rain and snow, so a jacket that got soaked easily would have been a real drag. I was so glad to have my warm jacket along with me, plus, the red was the perfect color for standing out against the background! iceland packing list In Landmannalaugar – Iceland’s Highlands I spent €250 on my jacket at a department store in Berlin. Online, it’s only available in Sweden, but here’s a jacket that is almost exactly the same and might even a bit cheaper. It comes in black, too! High-quality, waterproof snow boots iceland packing list Hanging out in Krýsuvík, Iceland The other item to allot more of your packing budget to is snow boots. These will keep your feet warm and dry, and high-quality ones will stand the test of time, too! I brought two pairs along with me and was glad I did. Though they kept the water out for the most part, that time I was jumping across freezing rivers of water in Landmannalaugar and couldn’t quite clear the water, I dunked my entire leg and was very glad that I had a dry pair of boots back in the camper van. My pairs are wool-lined UGG Brand Elsa boots, and the pair I’m wearing above are a few seasons old, but are just like Sorel’s version which comes in tons of adorable colors and sizes. Warm with fleece-lined leggings iceland packing list Love the fleece-lined leggings! My fleece-lined leggings were perfect for keeping my legs just warm enough for the temperatures in Iceland, which were right around freezing for most of the time that I was there in October. Thankfully, they’re also super cheap, so I got several pairs of bright and flashy ones and a few black and blue ones, and wore them during the whole trip. You can find a bunch of options here and here. Spring/Summer Rain jacket iceland packing list Perfect jacket for chasing waterfalls If you’re going in spring or summer, you might not need a super heavy duty snow jacket, but a rain jacket shell is a good idea, and layers that you can put on or take off underneath. I like bright colors, so I brought along a pink shell and wore my thermal layers underneath, which worked out perfectly. Packing for your trip to Iceland can be confusing. The climate in Iceland is so diverse, and no matter the time of the year, you will need waterproof clothing and layers. This packing list for Iceland works for anytime of the year, and includes insider tips to help you pack light and comfortably for your trip to Iceland. Click to read now. #Iceland #IcelandPackingList Pin me! Waterproof boots Since you’re unlikely to experience any snow in the late spring or summer months (but you never know, of course!), bringing waterproof boots is a good alternative. If you’re doing any hiking, you’ll definitely want them, but even if you’re just walking around the waterfalls, boots that keep out the moisture and have good tread are very helpful for the slippery rocks. I like the Montara boot for all of my hiking trips, but if you want something with a bit more style, Doc Martens would work well, too. All Weather Fleece-lined beanie and gloves You lose so much warmth through your head, so a fleece-lined beanie is a great way to stay toasty and luckily, they’re also very cheap. You can find a bunch of great options in every color here, and patterned ones here. I also keep a pair of rainbow gloves on hand for when night falls. They’re lined with fleece and though I bought mine in the Himalayas in Nepal, you can get a pair here for cheap. Thermal shirt iceland packing list thermals Love the Patagonia thermals. They’re thin, but very warm and last forever. The key to staying warm when you hit cooler temperatures and then shedding layers when it gets warmer are cheapie, easy thermals that you can mix and match and layer underneath your jacket. Bathing suit iceland packing list blue lagoon Don’t forget a bathing suit! One of the coolest things to do while in Iceland is visit the public swimming pools, which are super popular with the locals. Just about every town, no matter how small, seems to have one. They have showers and pools of varying heat up to 104°F/40°C, and are a great way to unwind after a day of adventures. What’s more, you’ll definitely want a suit for your visit to the Blue Lagoon. Additionally, be sure to bring along a pair of jeans or pants, a thick scarf, lots of warm and thick socks, ample undies, lots of thin, long-sleeved shirts to layer, a few pairs of normal leggings to layer or wear on their own in case it’s a bit warmer during the day, and a camera bag with a waterproof sleeve.+++5
I just did my packing for Iceland.  And, if you follow my YouTube channel pretty closely, you know how much I hate packing. It is the bane of my existence.  But, usually packing means throwing all my things in my suitcase and cleaning up a hotel room that I managed to destroy and in which scatter all my worldly possessions in a span of a couple days.  This time, I’m leaving a lot of things behind in Kent and packing a very small kit for Iceland. Of course, this following list of things I’m packing for Iceland is geared (pun intended) towards a photography kit.  But, honestly, I think that anyone can follow this packing list.  I think most people that travel to Iceland also pack a bunch of camera gear, even non-photographers. Still, this is primarily a packing list for photographer’s visiting Iceland. I’m not going to get all fancy with a lot of talk and text. I’m basically just going to list everything with some notes. Clothing Iceland is all about layers and staying dry. It’s also about keeping the wind off you.  In general, Iceland isn’t that cold (compared to Canada in the winter), but it can be dangerous because of the wind and rain.  So, my advice is to bring regular clothes with you. Then, bring a fleece or down jacket, and if you need it because it’s windy or rainy put a shell over it. Thus, my clothing list is pretty basic. Bring your regular clothes and then the following: Wind Resistant Trousers Wind and Rain Resistant Jacket Shell Water Resistant Gloves – I have some new Vellerret gloves that are built for photographers A wool hat road, Iceland There are lots of cool road scenes in Iceland. This was my favourite. Nothing beats a good s-turn, as a driver or a photographer. Footwear Again, pack things for Iceland that are going to keep you dry and warm.  I suggest that you bring a pair of waterproof/resistant hiking shoes that you can wear for most situations.  Then, you might also want to pack gumboots for situations where you’re walking across rivers.  Photographers will definitely want rubber boots to get into rivers and creeks for photos.  Serious photographers might want to consider bringing hip waders. Bring lots of socks! You’ll be changing them more than you think. Dettifoss, Iceland The power of this moment at Dettifoss can’t really be described in a photo. But, by climbing above the scene and putting a photographer in the image for scale, I think it works. What you can’t see in this image is the gale force wind that had us on our knees at times worried about being knocked into the waterfall. Camera Gear Obviously, everyone is different.  And, everyone’s kit is different. So, instead of listing what you should bring, I’ll list what I am bringing. This is my camera gear packing list for Iceland as a photographer: Camera Body = Canon 6d Lenses = Canon 16-35mm f/4, Canon 70-200mm f/2.8, Canon 50mm f/1.4, and Rokinon 14mm f/2.8 Drone = Mavic Pro Video Camera = Sony a6300 with kit 16-50mm lens and Zhiyun Crane Gimbal with Rode VideoMicro. Action Cams = GoPro Hero 5, and GoPro Hero 5 Sessions. Extra Batteries = 3 Canon LPE6 & 5 Sony batteries. Filters = 1 6-stop ND, 1 10-stop ND, 1 3-stop soft grad ND, 1 3-stop hard grad ND, 1 2-stop soft grad ND – all filters are Lee Filters. Drone Filters = Filters by PolarPro for the Mavic Tripod = 3 Legged Thing Winston waterfall, Iceland What was amazing about Iceland was that there were worthy sites nearly every kilometer. It made it hard to get anywhere. I have no idea what this waterfall in northeast Iceland is called, nor was it a major attraction on the road. But, damn, was it every beautiful and photogenic. Other Electronics I think most are going to want to pack these things to Iceland whether or not you’re a photographer.  Again, these are my things listed. Not necessarily the exact items you should bring.  But, I’m sure you get the point. Dell XPS15 Laptop 1 PowerBank –  for charging cameras and cell phones LG G5 smartphone Power adapters – Iceland uses European 2-prong plug-ins 5 – 64GB SanDisk Extreme SD Cards 5 – 64GB SanDisk Extreme MicroSD cards 2 – 510GB SanDisk SSD 1 – Card Reader Kirkjufellsfoss, Iceland Waterfalls Kirkjufellsfoss Random Things? I carry a couple things no matter where I travel that don’t really fit into any category. Some of these things are really important when packing for Iceland but can totally seem random. A Couple Shower Caps: I know, so random. But they are great for keeping your camera dry. Microfiber Towel: To dry off lenses and yourself. Protein Bars: Food is so expensive in Iceland. So, I like to pack some protein bars as snacks. CDs: Yes, you read that right. CDs are great to set your tripod on if you’re shooting in soft sand. It widens the base of the tripod so it doesn’t sink in. Geothermal site, Iceland Moon-like landscape at the geothermal site. Apps for Iceland? I definitely recommend a couple apps if you’re a photographer heading to Iceland. TPE: The Photographer’s Ephinemeris is a must as a photographer. It shows the direction of light, times of sunsets, etc. So good. Photo Pills: This app is like TPE but I use it mostly for planning the milky way. Map of Iceland Offline: You can also download the map of Iceland offline on Google Maps. My Aurora Forecast: An app that gives you the forecast in Iceland (and globally) for the Northern Lights.+++5
Travelers come in all forms and sizes. Different travelers have different travel goals. Generally, travel goals are dominated by the travel budget. Some travelers want to travel with luxury and comfort. Airfare Hotel Car From City:Los Angeles (LAX) Los Angeles (LAX) To City:Paris (ORY) Paris (ORY) Depart Date:01/31/2020 01/31/2020 Return Date:02/07/2020 02/07/2020 Class:Economy Adults:1 Children:0 Seniors:0 Skybooker.com	Expedia Travelocity	SkyScanner Search They don’t mind shelling a little extra dough from their pockets, while there are some travelers want to explore their culture and some travelers want to experience the beauty that Mother Earth has to offer. If you fall in the latter group; in order to be safe and secure, you must buy an overseas travel insurance plan. There are still another kind of travel enthusiasts that are the proud backpackers. They literally live out of a backpack. For them, it is super fun to survive on minimal luggage. Packing only that, which is necessary is the main idea behind backpack traveling. It makes you survive days in a way that you don’t do on a regular basis. Backpacking isn’t everybody’s cup of tea. There are different kinds of backpackers in travelers’ universe. Some like to cut out on the weight of clothes’ and they focus on toiletries. There are some who carry denim and ditch tees. They buy touristy tees on the go and they discard it when their trip comes to an end. The more you get to know about backpack traveling, the more it’ll surprise you. Backpackers live at home stays or hostels; they take public transport, and they love to interact with locals and fellow travelers. If you are new to the backpacking universe, don’t worry. This article will help you to de-clutter your mind as well as your luggage. And if you’re a pro backpacker and you know these tips already, you can drop your tips in the comments section below and help the backpacker traveling community to grow strong. Here are 10 Backpacking tips that all the travelers ought to know. Figure Out your Priorities- First things first, sort out what you want and what you don’t. If you want to travel with a backpack, your packing list can vary from a fellow backpacker, just like the itinerary. If you are going to an exotic beach, you need to carry extra clothes if you want to indulge in water sports. The Duration of Your Stay- If you are going to stay on the road for a long while, you are bound to pack more stuff. Carrying a small bag in your big bag is helpful. You can put your essential things in that and can keep your luggage at the cloakroom. The Travel Essentials- Travel essential are the travel basics that you can’t do without. If you have sensitive skin and climatic/geographic change takes a toll on your health it is a must to pack non-comedogenic and fragrance-free skin care products. If you’re thinking that it’s going to add to the weight, we have a solution for that as well. All you have to do is buy small airtight containers and fill up a considerable amount of skin care products. Make sure you pack it in such a way that it doesn’t leak. Carry it in a ziplock pouch so that even if it spills, it doesn’t mess up your clothes and gadgets. Travel Insurance- It is a must to buy a travel insurance plan especially when you are traveling The best travel insurance policy is the one that fulfills your travel expectations. Don’t let insurance premium be the deciding factors. Instead, consider coverage offered by a travel plan then select or reject that plan. The Fabric- Carry clothes keeping the weather of your destination in mind. Make sure your clothes are breathable and comfortable. If you are going to a hilly location then carry woolens that you can wear in layers. When you feel hot, you can take your sweaters off layer by layer. Carry Zip Locks and Polybags- It is a must to carry zip locks and laundry bags to carry your wet clothes and undergarments. It protects your fresh and dry clothes from coming in direct contact with the wet clothes. Carry Locks- Be it dormitories, home stays or hostels always lock your bag so that you don’t have to face any kind of inconvenience that could kill your vibe and put you in a trouble. Cut Down the Costs- For some travelers, backpacking means budget traveling. You can ditch fancy hotels and go for home stays to get that taste of authentic local culture or you can stay in hostels or dormitories and get a chance to catch up with the fellow travelers and swap travel stories with them. Versatile Outfits- Carry clothes that can be easily mixed and matched up. This way, you don’t have to pack extra, but have many clothing options. The most important advantage is, of course, that it will leave room for other things in your bag or leave you with a lighter load to carry. No books, Just eBooks- The idea behind backpack traveling is travel light. However, for many of us traveling must be accompanied by the right books so we aren’t discouraging you from carrying a book. You could carry eBooks and get your daily reading fix and you can switch between as many books as you’d like without being weighed down by them. We hope these tips were helpful for you. You can share your Backpacking tips or your travel stories in the comment section.  Life is too short to delay your travel plan. Keep traveling, Bon Voyage!!!+++5
Mountains and artisan food, festivals, wildlife, and outdoor adventure galore, the Algarve isn’t just about the beach. There’s no doubt that those sandy shores are one of the region’s greatest asset, but so many things in Portugal‘s southern province deserve more attention. Tick off this ultimate Algarve bucket list to witness the many faces of this sun-soaked destination. algarve bucket list, algarve must-dos 1. Visit an Algarve vineyard The Algarve isn’t known for its wine, but that’s not to say no one is producing it here. Plus, the wine culture’s under-the-radar quality makes it even more of a special thing to experience. Our top choice is Quinta do Francês, a vineyard in the secluded setting of the hilly Monchique area making a small selection of red, rose, and white wines. There’s also Monte de Casteleja, an organic wine producer near Lagos, and Quinta dos Vales Wine Estate at Estômbar, set on a picturesque estate with gardens and sculptures. // Related: Travelling to Portugal soon? You need our print journal A Year in Portugal, filled with outstanding travel narratives and photography. Find out more 2. Discover Silves Silves is one of the best places to retreat to if you want to get away from the coast for a while. Located 15km northeast of Portimão, this town is easy to get to from most places in the centre or west of the region, and there’s enough to do here for a day trip taken at a leisurely pace. One of Silves’ greatest highlights is its castle, dating back to Roman times and the best-preserved in the Algarve. You can still see one of the castle’s gates, plus its battlements, from which you can take in spectacular views across the surrounding countryside. // Related: Algarve travel – a practical guide to eating, sleeping, and getting around 3. Take the ferry up the Guardiana River The Guardiana River separates Spain and Portugal, a natural border that runs for more than 810km in the two countries, 260km of which are in Portugal. Boat trips up the river from Vila Real de Santo António up to Alcoutim connect you with the Mediterranean vegetation of this area, and the slow paced way of life that bumbles along on its banks. Pass by rural villages and hills gently rising up either side of you as you wend along the waters, have lunch up in Alcoutim, and head back down. 4. Eat a cataplana The cataplana is a traditional Algarve seafood dish and a word that refers to both the pan it’s cooked in and the food itself. It’s thought that the Moors first brought the dish here, taking inspiration from the Moroccan tagine that also mimics its name from pan to plate. Anything can be put in a cataplana. The base sauce is usually of a tomato, wine, and garlic make-up, and the variable ingredients include clams, mussels, prawns, white fish, and pork. Alongside other fish and seafood, the cataplana is a must-try in the Algarve and they are served at most seafood restaurants. // Related: 6 delicious and drool-worthy Portuguese dishes portuguese dishes, portugal food, portuguese cuisine, cataplana, algarve bucket listA cataplana, served in the traditional dish 5. Spend time in Monchique The Serra da Monchique is the Algarve’s mountain range and remains little unchanged from decades ago. This is a picture far removed from the beach life in the southern Algarve – up here you’ll come across farmers and village folk, rolling hills as far as the eyes can see, and local produce playing a major factor in the region’s culture. Look out for honey stands by the side of the road. Go mountain biking or hiking up here on the peaks of Foia and Picota (the range’s highest) and relax afterwards in Caldes de Monchique, a thermal spa town. The water here has attracted humans since the Roman times, and today you’ll find luxury spas nestled in the trees. Eat at Restaurante A Rampa, which does the most delicious piri-piri chicken and boasts a panorama down to the coast from its terrace. 6. Marvel at Estoi There’s one main reason to visit Estoi in the eastern Algarve, and that’s to witness its beautiful pink palace. The Palácio de Estoi is famous for its distinctive colour and tiling on other parts of the property, plus the beautiful surrounding gardens. You might not come here for a whole day out, but if you have a spare afternoon and want a break from the beach it’s worth popping to Estoi for a wander round. 7. Go to Cabo de São Vicente As the most southwestern point in Europe, a stop-off at Cabo de São Vicente is an essential when visiting the Algarve. There’s not a huge amount to do here – just a lighthouse, small museum, and bar sit on the edge of the cliffs, surrounded by empty headland – but the novelty of saying you’ve been here, and the dramatic setting, makes it worth it. Check the weather before you visit; this far western tip can often get stormy and overcast, cloaking the sky in a gloomy mist. When it’s sunny, however, you can’t beat the views. cabe de sao vicente, algarve bucket listThe lighthouse at Cabo de São Vicente. Image source 8. Hike the Via Algarviana If you’re hiking mad, there’s no better route to tackle in the Algarve than the Via Algarviana. Running from Alcoutim in the far east to Cabe de São Vicente, the trail runs for 300km, through 11 municipalities, right across the region. Most of the Via Algarviana is inland, making it a unique way to discover some of the more undisturbed parts of the Algarve where few people set foot. It’s extremely well marked and easy to navigate, with plenty of stops along the way to pitch up for the night and get supplies. Visit the trail’s website for more detailed information. // Related: 5 easy western Algarve walks 9. Swing by Loulé The little town of Loulé, less that half an hour north of Faro, makes for a fun day out or even a short stopover. The highlight is without doubt the Municipal Market, a pink and creme building in the centre that sells fruit and veg, typical products such as spices and honey, and an entire half is dedicated to the fishmongers. Pulling their catch from the nearby seas, these are among the most skilled fishmongers in the Algarve, making a visit to the market a spectacle of skill. They scale, slice, and fillet with ease – come here whether you like fish and seafood or not, as it’s quite the show. loule market, municipal market loule, algarve bucket listSellers at Loulé Municipal Market 10. Go to the medronho festival Each April the town of Monchique holds a festival dedicated to medronho, the local firewater. Prized by all locals here, medronho is actually made in many parts of Portugal, but Monchique is considered the very best place to try it and one of the quintessential products that make this humble town special. During the festival talks are held around town, but as a non-Portuguese speaker you’re better off just bubmling around trying sips of the drink for yourself. There are more than 80 licensed medronho producers in the area and this is one of the best places to sample the fruits of their labour. Approach with caution, however – this isn’t called firewater for nothing. 11. Wild swim in a lake It’s only a fraction of the year that the beaches in the Algarve are unoccupied, making it a difficult place to be if you want to go for some undisturbed swimming. However, seek and you shall find – there are a few lakes to take a dip in across the region. Our go-to spot was the lake next to the Bravura dam, north of Portimão. With no one around even in August, this is the perfect escape from some hassle-free bathing. It’s also a great spot for some stand-up paddleboarding as the water is so calm. Rent one down on the coast and drive up here for a chilled afternoon. 12. Visit Ponte da Piedade Potentially one of the busiest tourist attractions in the Algarve, Ponte da Piedade is a network of rock formations and sea stack near Lagos. It’s undoubtedly impressive and worth stopping at briefly, but we don’t recommend that you come here to sunbathe for a while in peak months as it gets extremely busy. A perhaps more peaceful way of seeing Ponte da Piedade is by kayak – join a tour or rent a kayak from a beach nearby and paddle over here to admire the view from the water. There’ll be far less people around you, and it’s a fun way to experience this beautiful sight. // Related: A weekend in the western Algarve itinerary ponta da piedade, algarve bucket listPonte da Piedade. Image source 13. Stay in a pousada As a rapidly growing tourism destination, both on the coast and further inland, there is a bigger variety of accommodation options in Portugal than ever. Few, however, are more unique than the pousada, a range of historical properties turned into luxury hotels. From fairy tale castles to grand palaces, there are 34 pousadas across the country, and six of these are within the Algarve. The Pousada Convento de Tavira – a 16th century convent in the eastern Algarve – is among the most impressive, with a renaissance cloister and just 36 rooms, not far from the centre of this gorgeous little town. In the west, the Pousada de Sagres (or Hotel Infante) boasts cliff-top views over the wild Atlantic Ocean, and the Vila Valverde, a 19th century manor house near Praia da Luz, mixes its traditional roots with modern, fresh design. 14. Take a boat to Ria Formosa Natural Park One of the few parts of the Algarve’s coast untouched by mass tourism (although perhaps not for long), Ria Formosa Natural Park is where to go if you’re looking for miles of secluded sand. Catch the ferries out from Faro, Olhão, or Tavira to reach this collection of five islands and two peninsulas. As well as uncrowded shores, you’ll also find pretty villages to walk through and be able to watch fishing boats haul in loads from the sea. Spend a couple of days staying on the mainland and hopping out to different parts of the park. Culatra is our favourite as it’s the most traditional, with permanent residents still living on the island. ria formosa, algarve bucket list, best beaches algarveA butterfly in Ria Formosa Natural Park 15. Go to a sardine festival It might sound strange, but yes – sardine festivals are a thing. It’s extremely common to find this little fish on menus across the Algarve, grilled over coals to perfection. To celebrate this tradition festivals are held all over the region from east to west over the months of July and August. During these events not only fish is served but also other types of seafood and Portuguese cuisine, plus copious amounts of beer and wine and often some live music too. Portimão hosts one of the most famous sardine festivals in the Algarve – they even have a daily parade here to kick things off. 16. Experience Tavira Tavira is one of the gems of the eastern Algarve – a quaint little town in the banks of the Gilão river that’s surprisingly untouched by foreign visitors. It’s worth staying here for a couple of days to really experience all of Tavira’s charms; it’s pretty streets by day and night, the beaches and islands nearby, and its Moorish, Roman, and typically Portuguese architecture and landmarks. We stayed at Taah Billa Guest House, a quiet, affordable hotel right next to the river. 17. Spot dolphins off the coast On any given day, with a good pair of binoculars, from the Algarve shores you can see dolphins breaching the top of the ocean. This mainly occurs in the west – we once spotted a large group on the cliff-top walk from Praia da Luz to Lagos. You’ll notice on your travels around here that there are many dolphin spotting tours you can go on – approach these with caution. There are a few different companies that run these, and once a group of dolphins is located all the boats flock to see them, something that disrupts the way of life for these animals. To play on the safe side, avoid these tours and just keep your eyes peeled as you explore the coast. bottlenose dolphin algarve, algarve bucket listBottlenose dolphin off the coast. Image source 18. Join a yoga retreat Yoga breaks in Portugal have boomed in the last five years or so, and they’ve proven particularly popular in the western Algarve. This region is known for being more rugged and isolated, where a relaxed pace of life goes hand-in-hand with meditation and calming yoga practice overlooking the Atlantic. Meka Yoga runs retreats out near Sagres every month of the year, some hosted in their luxurious yoga village and others in tipi glamping. If you can’t do an entire week, they also run yoga classes every day between July and September, or you can find plenty of other yoga classes in most parts of the Algarve. // Related – Active Portugal: the best hiking, biking, surfing, and more 19. Stop by Olhão Just west of Faro, the town of Olhão is becoming an increasingly popular stop on most people’s Algarve itineraries, and for good reason. Cobbled laneways trail through the centre, flanked by buildings covered in tiles with lines of washing hanging out on balconies. It would only take two or three nights to get to know Olhão as it’s small, but it’s still worth lingering in. Olhão is a 15-20 minute ferry ride from here out to Ria Formosa, one of the Algarve’s most unspoilt coastal regions. Base yourself in Olhão, nipping out to the part to spot bird life and lie back on the quiet beaches, heading back into the town for dinner (tapas at Bioco is out favourite) and evenings around town. visiting olhao, olhao algarve olhao portugal, eastern algarve travelRooftops of Olhão, eastern Algarve 20. Splash out at O Paolo Set atop the cliffs just outside the village of Arrifana, O Paolo is a place you certainly won’t forget dining at. The show stopper of a view from this west coast fish restaurant is exceeded in wow factor by almost no other on these shores – and the food is excellent too. The menu is mostly fresh fish and seafood, but there are a few meat and vegetarian dishes to even out the selection. You’d come here on an intimate night with your partner or a big, special family meal. It’s not outrageously expensive, but you’ll have to loosen the purse strings a touch – but it’s completely worth it. 21. Go cave hopping As well as Ponte da Piedade, there is a collection of other magical rock formations and caves to explore on the coast. These hideaways are best explored on a boat tour, where a guide will take you to those secret spots that only the locals know about. We took a guided tour from Benagil beach, which is around the corner from one of the most famous caves, and close to plenty of others that the driver will take you to. Cave excursions are mostly run in the western Algarve as opposed to the east, where the Atlantic has battered the shores for centuries and left its mark. cave hopping portugal, algarve caves, algarve bucket listCave hopping near Lagos. Image source 22. Eat octopus in Santa Luzia Santa Luzia in the eastern Algarve is known as the capital of octopus. Traditionally, fishermen would catch the creatures in the sea using alcatruz, clay pots that the octopus attach themselves to at night, offering the perfect opportunity for fishermen to snap them up. Not all fishermen use this technique, but it’s what the area is famous for. Casa do Polvo in Santa Luzia is the best restaurant to try regional octopus at, and it’s cooked here in many different ways – fried, stewed, and more – with lots of different accompaniments. Book a table ahead here in peak season as it gets very busy. 23. Ride the train from Faro to Lagos There’s a special place in our hearts for the rickety train that runs from Faro to Lagos, and back again. It’s not the most jaw-dropping journey you’ll ever take, but it’s cheap and convenient, and trundles through groves of orange trees and traditional stations covered in tiling. The train is made up of just a couple of carriages and it’s hardly ever full, so you can sit back and enjoy the slow pace and the views that drift by the window. 24. Try surfing Surfing is a major part of life for people in the Algarve, particularly on the far western shores. At any time of year here you’ll find wave worshippers going around in vans with boards strapped to their roofs scouting for the best conditions. People come here for months on end just to surf the best waves in Europe. If you’re a newbie, there are plenty of surf schools that will teach you – head to Amado to book some lessons. When you’ve got a grip of your skills, head out to Ponta Ruiva, a popular surf spot all year round, Zavial, or Monte Clérigo. 25. Stay in Lagos We were based just outside Lagos for most of our time in Portugal, and we couldn’t rate the town more. It gets a little touristy in August and there are certain streets to avoid if you want to dodge other foreigners, but Lagos is full of great places to eat and drink, and serves as a top launch pad for exploring the rest of the western Algarve. For restaurant recommendations, read our guide to the nine best restaurants in Lagos, and we’ve also got you covered for where to stay. top portuguese cities, lagos algarveLoveable Lagos 26. Hop on the Rota Vicentina Second to the Via Algarviana, the Rota Vicentina is another of the Algarve’s best long distance hiking trails. This path begins at Cabo de São Vicente, and travels all the way up the wild west coast to Santiago do Cacém in the Alentejo. The sections within the Algarve are among the best on the trail, and there are two different routes: the Historical Way, which focuses more inland, and the Fisherman’s Route, diversions that connect you with incredible coastal scenery. If you don’t have time to complete the whole Algarve section, there are also suggested circular routes along the way that are manageable in just a day or half day. The Algarve circular routes are mainly based around Bordeira and Carrapateira. 27. Dine at Caniço, a restaurant in the cliffs Set right in the side of a cliff face near Alvor in the west Algarve, Caniço is one to save for a special night in Portugal. You have to take an elevator down into the centre of the cliff to reach it, and there are just a handful of tables – those on the edge look right over the beach. Caniço’s menu is almost exclusively fish and seafood, although there are a few other options if that’s not your thing. As a quality restaurant in a truly unique setting it’s also quite expensive, and you must book a table or you’ll likely not get one, but it’s well worth pushing the boat out for. 28. Go to Lagos Food Festival Lagos Food Festival will be in its third year in 2017, and it will no doubt be running for a good few years to come. It was started by a local called Maria Nobre de Carvalho, who craved a place to hang out with her friends with good food for her birthday. Maria was inspired by a similar event held near Lisbon, and single-handedly decided to bring that vision to Lagos. The festival is held each July next to Praça Infante Dom Henrique, and a wide selection of food trucks take part over the course of two days. You can find anything here from gourmet sandwiches to artisan pizza, vegetarian and vegan options plus drinks and chill out areas ideal for enjoying them in. The atmosphere is always electric. 29. Have a night at the theatre in Faro Faro hasn’t got a huge amount going for it that’s not driven entirely towards tourists, but it’s home to some of the few theatre productions in the Algarve. There’s the Teatro das Figuras, a large, modern theatre on the outskirts of town that runs large productions, but in the centre of Faro is Teatro Lethes. This minuscule, intimate theatre has been running since 1874 and puts on small shows and concerts. It’s a joy just to be sitting in its small interior with ornate details and painted roof, and its existence is hugely under-publicised to tourists. One of the Algarve’s hidden gems, without doubt.+++5
Long-Distance hiking is one of my favorite vacations. This ‘active relaxation’ holiday is rejuvenating. Not to mention addictive. I now do at least one every year. Table of Contents While I’ve LOVED my long-distance treks – Tour du Mont Blanc, Everest Base Camp, Wicklow Way, West Highland Way, the Dolomites, the Italian Riviera and, most recently, the Dana to Petra trek in Jordan, I’ve also had rough spots on some of them. Along the way, I’ve also met a lot of hikers who were miserable. Enough so that they quit. Instead of feeling bliss and a sense of accomplishment, they walked away in misery.  It doesn’t have to be that way though. These are 7 common things that will wreck your treks, along with how to prevent them from happening to you. a hiker on one of the two highest points of the Tour du Mont Blanc 1. Blisters Nothing will wreck your long-distance hiking trip faster than blisters where each step is agonizing, and no amount of mountain peaks can stop you from focusing on the pain you feel. Fortunately, to a large extent, they are avoidable. Break-in your hiking boots. Hiking in new hiking boots that you haven’t worn is almost asking for blisters, so while it’s fine to buy new hiking boots for your TMB adventure, break them in first. Also be sure to buy them in the afternoon or evening when your feet are swollen, as they will be when you’re hiking. Years ago, I made the mistake of buying my hiking boots in the morning and even though I bought a 1/2 size bigger to allow for swelling it wasn’t enough. I ended up with blisters on every single hike I did until I eventually gave up and bought new ones. Keep your hiking boots dry with a waterproof spray. If your boots get wet, you’ll create friction which means blisters. It’s very likely that at some point while hiking the TMB you’ll be walking in the rain so bring a waterproof spray with you to keep the moisture out of your boots. If it’s raining hard, gaiters can also help keep your boots dry. Invest in a good pair of socks with wicking material to keep the moisture away from your feet. Now is not the time to stock up on bargain cotton socks. Wearing cotton socks is practically asking for blisters. Bring Compeed. If a blister does develop, I’ve found this is the best solution to prevent further rubbing. You’ll find more ideas on how to prevent blisters and tips on how to treat a blister here. hiker on the Tour du Mont Blanc 2. Muscle Soreness If you wake up and feel like an old granny or grandpa who takes 5 minutes to lift yourself out of bed, it’s going to be rather difficult to motivate yourself for long-distance hiking. Especially if its 6-hours or more day-to-day. Adequate Training in advance can help ensure that your muscles are ready for the challenge that awaits. I swear by, even though I hate it, a cold burst of water at the end of my shower, focusing on my sore muscles. In my case, it was my shoulders from carrying a heavy pack. If you aim the shower nozzle at the affected spot and hold it there for a minute, it will reduce inflammation. You can read more about cold water treatment in this study. It won’t be possible for you to take a bath while on most long-distance hiking but a cold shower or bursts of cold water is possible. A far more pleasant experience and the #1 non-essential item I recommend bringing is a massage ball. This feels SOOOO good on aching shoulders, legs, feet wherever. It’s cheap, doesn’t take up much room and provides immediate relief. Take magnesium supplements. Magnesium helps to relax the nerves and muscles. I took supplements every day while hiking and believe they helped. You can read more about them here. hikers on a flat section of the Tour du Mont Blanc 3. Not Choosing the Right Tour for You While there is no best way to do long-distance hiking, there is the best way for you. Carefully consider whether you want to do an easier or more difficult version. In addition, on some treks, you can either choose to carry your own luggage (making it much harder). For example, for our Self-Guided Tour du Mont Blanc Treks, we offer  7, 9 or 10-day tours. You should choose the one best aligned with your fitness level. Our 7-day tour is the easiest with ~ 4 – 6 hours of hiking each day, the 10-day tour is the middle option with ~ 6 hours of hiking each day, and the most difficult option is the 9-day option with ~ 6 1/2 hours of walking each day. Keep in mind these times don’t include breaks so expect to add at least 1 – 2 hours to your hiking time. When choosing your tour, be honest with yourself about your fitness level and abilities. You want this to be an incredible experience, not a painful one. The Wicklow Way is a great long distance hike in Ireland. Wicklow Way in Ireland 4. Getting Wet There’s a very good chance that you will get rained on at some point while hiking. Mountain weather is known for being unpredictable and for changing in an instant.  Fortunately with a little bit of preparation getting wet is very easy to deal with. As mentioned above, ensure that you have a waterproof spray for your hiking boots. You should also bring a waterproof coat and pants – in addition to quick-dry hiking pants. Be sure that your backpack has a waterproof cover and pack your valuables like your mobile phone and passport in a dry bag. If it’s raining hard and you’re carrying your gear, it’s also a good idea to have a larger dry bag that you can fit at least some of your clothes into. That way you’ll be guaranteed to have a change of dry clothes. Hiker relaxing and enjoying the views of Mount Blanc Hiker relaxing and enjoying the views of Mount Blanc 5. Getting Hungry One thing that surprises many trekkers is how light breakfasts are on some treks. For example, when you hike the TMB a typical breakfast at a hut will be tea or coffee and a croissant. This is a cultural thing. Most Europeans eat much lighter breakfasts than we do in Canada and the United States.  If you’re lucky, there may be a small cheese and meat plate, yogurt and a piece of fruit. That may not be enough to sustain you so ensure that you bring extra snacks to tide you over until lunch. You can order your lunch at your hut the night before for a fee. A typical lunch on the TMB includes sandwiches and a piece of fruit, but you can ask at the hut before you order. Thankfully, dinners are much heartier and are usually three courses. Meals will vary depending on what trail you are hiking but it’s always a  good idea to bring extra trail mix or energy bars. You don’t want to be a hungry hiker! Especially with long-distance hiking. Trekking to Everest Base Camp Trekking to Everest Base Camp 6. Sleepless Nights This can be an issue if you’ve chosen dormitory accommodation in a mountain hut. While huts are typically quiet (hikers are tired) it’s almost a given that someone will be snoring. Fortunately, this is remedied by bringing earplugs. They will make a huge difference in how well-rested you’ll feel. hiking the West Highland Way in Scotland Hiking the West Highland Way in Scotland. 7) Not Getting Along with Your Hiking Companion Whether you’re hiking with a friend, relative or partner tensions may arise no matter how much you love the person(s) you’re hiking with. It’s easy for both parties to get frustrated if you’re hiking at different speeds or have different ideas of how often to take breaks and for how long. I find the best way to deal with these kinds of differences is to have an adaptable hiking flow. By this, I mean start hiking together but if one person is much faster than the other and both parties are getting annoyed by having to speed up or slow down, agree to walk separately for a time (don’t just take off) and agree on a meeting place on the trail. For example, you can look at your map and see there’s a hut a few kilometers ahead and can agree to meet there and stop for a break. This works best when both parties have mobile phones so that you can send a quick text to each other to check-in. Another idea is that if there is a steep section near the beginning of the trail, the slower hiker can get an earlier start and agree to meet the faster hiker at the top. Note, this only works if both parties agree and are OK with hiking small sections alone. I did this while hiking the TMB and it worked perfectly. I don’t like talking much while hiking and sometimes its good to walk at your own pace. On the days and sections, it was the same, we hiked together, and on the days it wasn’t we walked short sections separately as outlined above. If you’re not comfortable hiking small sections alone, then ensure that your hiking buddy walks at a similar pace as you do, or that whoever is faster doesn’t mind walking at a slower pace. I find it’s useful to have these discussions ahead of time and agree on a strategy. That way, you’ll avoid surprises and disagreements on the trail and thoroughly enjoy your time with your hiking companion. Make sure to get the right gear, you can check out my top gifts for hikers for ideas for your next hike or for a special hiker in our life. Avoid these seven things that can wreak havoc on your long-distance trek, and you’re sure to have an epic trip of a lifetime!+++5