2020 Hyundai Venue – A Basic Box By Tim Healey on January 21, 2020 2020 Hyundai Venue At some point in the past few years, the word “basic” began being used as a pejorative, aimed at young men and women whose personal style and interests were “exceedingly ordinary,” in the words of the great Urban Dictionary. Advertisement Powered By You know the stereotype: pumpkin spice lattes and Ugg boots for women; untucked button-down shirts, Axe body spray, and dingy baseball hats for men. Basic doesn’t have to mean bad, boring, or ordinary, though. It can also mean simple. And the 2020 Hyundai Venue is just that: Simple. And that’s not meant as a pejorative. Which isn’t to the say the Venue is without flaws. But it’s meant for basic – there’s that word again – transport, and not much else, and it’s poised to do that job well. (Full disclosure: Hyundai flew me to Miami and fed and housed me for two nights so that I could drive the Venue. They offered snacks, which I ate, and a travel coffee mug/water bottle and travel bag, which I declined to take.) Let’s start with the shape. Hyundai’s design team has kept it simple – the Venue is boxy, without a lot of drama or odd design cues. The grille matches the rest of the company’s SUV and crossover line. Slab sides give the Venue an upright look, and certain colors pop while others blend and still others make you question if the designers were colorblind. Overall, the best thing – and the worst thing – that can be said about the exterior styling is that it’s inoffensive. Yeah, it’s plain and simple. That function-over-form aesthetic continues over to the cabin. Everything is laid out simply – a traditional shifter for the continuously-variable automatic transmission sits next to the handbrake, the gauge cluster has easy-to-read instruments and info screen, and the center-stack infotainment system is easy to read and use, although the dreaded tacked-on look mars the interior a bit. 2020 Hyundai Venue Big knobs adjust volume and tuning in a refreshingly old-school manner, and the climate controls are clever in their execution – temperature and fan speed are adjusted via dials that ring the digital displays. The inside is more than roomy enough for most folks, although the rear seat will be tight for taller adults if they’re parked behind a similarly tall person. While Hyundai offers a fair amount of safety and convenience tech for the price – more on that in a bit – one common piece of tech that’s conspicuous in its absence, if not exactly missed, is auto stop-start. (Get Hyundai Venue pricing here!) Venue is powered (that term is used somewhat loosely) by a 1.6-liter four-cylinder that makes 121 horsepower and 113 lb-ft of torque. The engine pairs either to a six-speed manual transmission or the aforementioned continuously-variable automatic. Unlike most CVTs, this one is a link-type. According to Hyundai, it’s only the second of its type to hit the market, following the Subaru Impreza. 2020 Hyundai Venue I’d have loved to get my hands on a manual, but Hyundai didn’t provide any for our test drives. This is too bad, since while the CVT is generally well behaved with minimal drone, the engine needs to be kept above 3,500 rpm or so to feel truly responsive, and the presence of the stick-shift would be a useful way to keep the car on the boil. Putting the car in Sport mode helps here. In fact, buyers might want to drive in Sport mode at all times. Otherwise, the Venue struggles a bit to get up to speed. Keeping the engine in the upper rev band does have a drawback: Noise. Things get loud and coarse at the higher end of the rpm range. Whether in Sport or Normal – there’s also a Snow mode – the Venue has something one of its competitors, the Nissan Kicks, doesn’t: Actual steering feel. It is a bit artificial and heavy, but it’s something, at least. You do feel connected to the road, which isn’t always the case in this class. Not that we had much of a chance to truly evaluate handling. Anyone who’s spent time in South Florida knows the only dangerous curves belong to the bikini-clad women on South Beach. Our run to the Keys and back didn’t include any corner that wasn’t a gentle sweeper on the freeway. Hyundai did this because the Venue is positioned as a “city car,” but it would’ve been nice to get even a small sense of how the Venue reacts when pushed a bit. My guess would be not all that well. I’ll have to wait for a loan for further evaluation. 2020 Hyundai Venue It does ride well on the highway, but we’re talking Florida here – there’s not much in the way of broken, pot-holed pavement to contend with. Again, further evaluation is needed. Venue does feel better screwed-together than Kicks, Ford’s EcoSport, and Chevrolet’s Trax. The uplevel-trim SEL version I drove is cheaper than similarly equipped versions of the latter two, as well. Venue comes standard with Apple CarPlay and Android Auto, which the Kicks doesn’t. Like the Kicks, the Venue is not available with all-wheel drive. The Trax and EcoSport, are, of course, as well as the Mazda CX-3 and CX-30, which are also in the Venue’s competitive set. Hyundai claims the lack of available AWD is simply a cost-saving measure. 2020 Hyundai Venue Venue’s materials feel class-competitive and not cheap at all, but the safety ninnies are especially obnoxious with their beeps and bloops. There are three trims: base SE, uplevel SEL, and Denim. Standard features include 15-inch wheels, Apple CarPlay, Android Auto, USB, auxiliary jack, Bluetooth, air conditioning, cruise control, remote keyless entry, 60/40 split-fold rear seat, forward collision-avoidance assist with pedestrian detection, lane-keeping assist, and driver-attention warning. Available features include automatic climate control, the drive-mode select, dual USB charging, 17-inch wheels, LED headlights and daytime running lights, LED taillights, power sunroof, heated front seats, navigation, satellite radio, dual USB charging, six speakers, push-button start, rear disc brakes (yes, the base car has rear drums), BlueLink connected-car system, blind-spot collision warning, and rear cross-traffic alert. The sunroof is part of an option package (along with rear cross-traffic alert), and another package adds the 17s, nav, heated seats, BlueLink, and LED lights. My test vehicle had both package and carpeted floor mats ($135) for an as-tested price of $23,280. That includes the $1,095 destination fee. 2020 Hyundai Venue The Denim trim includes leatherette seats and a two-tone look in which the roof contrasts with the body color. Venue’s overall package is intriguing, but is Venue a value? It’s pricier than Kicks when well-equipped, and the lack of AWD may turn off Snow Belters. But it undercuts the EcoSport and Trax while also being a better vehicle. I haven’t driven the CX-30 yet, but it charmed Chris. Kia’s boxy Soul is also in the same pricing ballpark, at least in base trim, but it doesn’t read as a natural competitor to the Venue. When we talk about price, we’re talking MSRP, since incentives come and go quickly and we can’t continually update our reviews. This means that the Venue might not cost you what the sticker says – and if a dealer is willing to, well, deal, perhaps the price gap over the Kicks matters less. 2020 Hyundai Venue It’s also worth noting that if you don’t need boxy utility, you can be shopping Civics/Corollas/Elantra Sports for about the same amount of dough. Hyundai has cooked up one of the better so-called “city cars,” but it will cost a bit more to get the most desirable features, at least compared to a key rival. Then again, you’re getting a better vehicle for less money than at least two others on the market. Whether that puts the Venue in a sweet spot in the market or whether cost-conscious buyers will be kicking it with Nissan remains to be seen. Same goes for Snow Belt buyers – is AWD worth the extra cost of the CX-30 or the inferior Trax and EcoSport? All I can say for sure is that Venue’s “basicness” is more virtue than vice. [Images © 2020 Tim Healey/TTAC] +++9
2020 Ford Mustang GT PP2 Review – Pony Car Essence, at a Price By Tim Healey on January 15, 2020 2020 Ford Mustang GT PP2 2020 Ford Mustang GT PP2 5.0-liter V8 (460 horsepower @ 7,500 rpm; 420 lb-ft @ 4,600 rpm) Six-speed manual, rear-wheel drive 15 city / 24 highway / 18 combined (EPA Rating, MPG) 16.1 city, 9.9 highway, 13.3 combined. (NRCan Rating, L/100km) Base Price: $39,355 (U.S) / $47,025 (Canada) As Tested: $51,640 (U.S.) / $60,275 (Canada) Prices include $1,095 destination charge in the United States and $1,850 for freight, PDI, and A/C tax in Canada and, because of cross-border equipment differences, can’t be directly compared. Advertisement Powered By In order to promote the Mustang Mach-E that would be unveiled later that night, Ford gave journalists who’d flown to California for the reveal the chance to drive the rest of the Mustang lineup. From Shelby GT500s and GT350s to GTs and EcoBoosts, they were all on hand for a run up the Angeles Crest Highway. Perhaps unintentionally, the drive was a reminder that the Mach-E probably isn’t going to fit right in. It may actually be fun to drive – certainly, as an EV, it will have plenty of torque – but we won’t know that for a while. Still, it’s hard to picture it running the mountain the same way the two-door coupe Mustangs do. Which is to say, pretty damn well. (Full disclosure: Ford flew me to Los Angeles last month for the Los Angeles Auto Show, Mustang Mach-E reveal, and to drive a bunch of Mustangs on Angeles Crest Highway. The company provided food and board.) With all the hoopla surrounding the EV crossover Mach-E, it’s easy to forget just how good current coupe Mustangs are at their assigned task. While not flawless, current Mustangs also display fewer faults than in the past – they at least feel better put-together than the cowl-shaking pony cars of just a few years ago. And the move to an independent suspension certainly improves ride and handling. 2020 Ford Mustang GT PP2 There are still brickbats to be given. The rear seat in any Mustang remains useless except for infants or parcels, there’s still too much cheap plastic for this price point, and the interior is starting to look a tad dated. Yet, there’s a lot that can be cured by a 5.0-liter V8 that makes 460 horsepower and 420 lb-ft of torque, and the six-speed manual remains a slick-shifting unit. Take that package to the lovely Angeles Crest Highway high above Los Angeles, and you can put it to good use. Light yet communicative steering, strong brakes, tires that stick, plenty of power for the straights – the ‘Stang has all that. It tracks well in corners, too. While it’s not nearly as good as the Shelby GT500 I’d piloted part way up the hills – duh – it’s a plenty fine dance partner for weekend drives should you live near the right kind of road. Even when you leave the car in “normal” mode instead of “sport.” 2020 Ford Mustang GT PP2 All that with the still-sounds-cool V8 rumble, and a pleasant-enough ride around town (at least on LA’s smooth roads). My drive in the GT Performance Package 2 was short, just half the downhill run towards L.A. and then through traffic back to the hotel, so this review will be shorter than most (save your applause). But I didn’t need much time to get a sense of what this pony can do. I’m not sure if it’s the PP2 that makes the car feel so much improved over GTs from a few years ago, or the simple tweaks that happen from year to year, or both. All I know for sure is that while the Shelbys have topped the Mustang news this year, and the Bullitt remains the Mustang I’d be most likely to buy, the GT with the PP2 is quite the charmer on the backroads. And it better be, considering Mustang GTs are no longer a performance bargain. Hell, a nicely kitted EcoBoost four-banger isn’t exactly a value buy these days. 2020 Ford Mustang GT PP2 Indeed, the GT I drove started at just under $40K, and it crossed the $50K mark, although not by too much, when optioned out. Standard equipment included capless fuel-filler, fog lamps, LED headlamps, logo-projection lamps, hood vents, LED taillamps, quad dual exhaust tips, ambient lighting, 12-inch LCD digital instrument cluster, dual-zone automatic climate control, split fold rear seat, USB port, split-fold rear seat, independent rear suspension, electronically assisted power steering, limited-slip rear axle, keyless entry and starting, rearview camera, selectable drive modes, satellite radio, Sync infotainment, track apps, and reverse-sensing system. One option package included uplevel trim and floormats, nav, blind-spot information system, and rear cross-traffic alert for $2,200. The $6,500 Performance Package 2 gives you a 3.73 rear axle, unique rear spoiler, 19-inch wheels, and magnetic damping. Recaro leather seats cost $1,595, while an exhaust system that allows the driver to control the amount of noise cost $895. Add in the $1,095 destination fee, and the total comes out to $51,640. $50K for a Mustang GT seems dear. Especially since, if some basic Googling is correct, a Fox-body GT that was priced for a bit under $14K in 1990 would be a reasonable $27K in 2020 dollars. The Mustang was once an affordable sports car, even in the highest-performance trim with V8 power. Not anymore. That’s the price of growth. Ford has improved on the Mustang formula over time, but in so doing, it went from affordable sports car to full-blown muscle machine, especially when equipped with eight cylinders. The competing Camaro has followed a similar path. The need for speed transformed these machines from cheap speed options to toys for the well-off. That said, if you have the means, a Mustang GT PP2 is a solid option from the pony-car stable. +++9
2020 Volkswagen Passat S Rental Review – Big and Basic By Corey Lewis on January 13, 2020 When your author’s 2019 Golf SportWagen (to be revealed soon) went into the shop for warranty work after just two weeks of ownership, the dealer provided a service loaner for a couple days (or four). And it was a brand new Passat, but one company PR would never release into the hands of any journalist: the most basic version. Let’s see if the spacious S sedan is an Ace of Base. Advertisement Powered By Refreshed for the 2020 model year, the Passat’s bones date back to 2012, when the NMS or “New Midsize Sedan” version debuted in North America, Mexico, and China. For 2019, the Chinese-market Passat moved to the MQB platform as a brand new model. In North America, the old NMS version continues with a refresh to bring it in line visually with the Chinese Passat. Trims on offer range from the basic S at $22,995 to the SEL at $31,095. All versions carry the same 2.0-liter turbo four; ubiquitous power under the hood of Volkswagen vehicles. No matter the trim, 174 horsepower are sent to the front via the six-speed automatic, and the EPA says to expect 23 city and 34 highway. Visually, Passat’s mostly a carry-over from before. The shape is largely anonymous, and those not well-versed in VW styling could easily mistake the Passat for the Jetta (the Passat’s an inch wider and seven inches longer, for the record). The block lettering across the trunk lid is new and brings an upscale touch. Other things to note are pretty good paint quality, consistent (if a bit large) panel gaps, and doors which sound nice upon closure. Just don’t expect the solid sound of a worldwide Volkswagen product like say, a Golf. Particularly offensive on the exterior is the gigantic fuel door, which is too large for no apparent reason and is made of plastic. It does not give any sense of quality when handled. Though the large dimensions don’t get up to much on the styling front, dividends are paid in the interior. Space is plentiful front and rear, with copious leg and head room for all passengers, even if they’re over six feet tall. Seats are supportive for short trips, offering enough side bolstering to hold front passengers in place. They fall short on thigh support, though, so a long journey for the long of leg might prove painful. Adjustments are manual and plentiful in all directions. Fabrics feel just alright, but as far as long-term wear considerations go, the material is a bit thin. Trunk space is best described as cavernous, and should be more than enough for the needs of the masses. Basic is the theme of this interior. In the driver’s seat, a sea of black rubber and plastic stretches before you — perhaps as expected in a Volkswagen. Dash materials are a rubberized plastic, and there’s a thread of faux stitching running the width. The cockpit is generally aesthetically pleasing, with simple screen and HVAC controls. Drawing the eye across the cabin are the vents integrated into a horizontal piece of trim, similar to an Audi 5000 from 1980. It’s a nice, clean look. For the most part, materials below dash level are hard plastic. Silver trim is the same texture as the surrounding plastic, and gives a bland appearance. The steering wheel, while feeling pleasant enough in the hand, is made of rubber and has an unfinished edge here and there along the inside of the rim. It’s also slightly offset to the right, which is unforgivable in the opinion of your author. Of note is a nicely-padded center console lid that’s trimmed in V-tex and operates with a smooth, Germanic latch and motion. Switches throughout are a mix of Golf, Jetta, and Passat-unique pieces. Most feel like they’re made decently well, but not of stellar materials. Passat’s climate control knobs hail from the Golf and jiggle loosely in their housings; on the Golf they don’t. Windows roll up very loudly, seemingly via tired motors shouting for a rest. Gauges convey information simply and are easy to read, but they match those from the base Jetta, and are not pleasing in appearance. It’s all finished in a black-and-red color scheme that looks downmarket. Also downmarket is the randomly beige rear view mirror, which is a weird parallelogram shape and also sourced from the Jetta. The view provided out the rear window is a good size and not too obstructed by headrests, but said view is marred by shiny rear parcel shelf plastic, which unfortunately reflects sunlight. It’s a bit thoughtless. On the technology front, pluses go to the decently sized touch screen, Apple CarPlay and Android Auto connectivity, Bluetooth, XM satellite radio, and a backup camera of fair resolution. It’s simple and intuitive enough to use, and does not rely on annoying mouse inputs like other systems. What’s not here is the most modern Volkswagen screen system, a push-button ignition, an electronic parking brake, auto stop-start, adaptive cruise, or an eco mode. There are a lot of blanks on the dash and gear selector, and the key you’ll use is the one they had for the Beetle in 2002. The base radio sounds fine, if a bit tinny. Turning the key quickly fires up the 2.0-liter mill. It’s smooth and quiet until around 2600 rpm, at which point some turbo noise and engine groaning enters the cabin. Not an especially good noise; newer I-4 engines from the brand sound nicer. Out on the road, the six-speed transmission is a bit ill-suited to its task. Given it’s a holdout in a world of eight forward speeds, one would expect well-honed operation. At takeoff in daily driving situations, the transmission is too eager to make the 1-2 shift. This drops off the revs immediately, and the turbo has nothing on which to run, so it can’t assist. It leads to a slog forward, as second gear builds enough revs to get you moving and into third. This issue does not occur when urgent forward motion is requested, but that’s outside of normal driving operation. In other situations, the transmission is a bit better, with cleanly executed shifts occurring at the right time. Sport mode is a notch down on the gearshift, and simply holds all the gears for a bit longer while increasing engine noise. Freeway acceleration is more than adequate for this class of car, and passing was a breeze. It feels notably quicker than a Golf with a 1.4-liter, for instance. The brakes were very strong, and in an emergency situation where the truck in front of me ran a red light, stopped the Passat quickly. Of particular concern in my 24-mile example was a brake pedal with a seemingly faulty return. Letting off the brake, there was a lag before the pedal returned to its released position; it raised to meet my foot. I took to letting off the pedal about half a second before I wanted to move onward. A fluke, I’d hope. On the potholed roads here in Ohio, the Passat’s ride was on the firm side of comfortable; bumps and imperfections were soaked up fine and did not transmit through to the seat. But over rough pavement there was a bit more jiggling than I’d expect from a large, front-drive sedan with tall tires. Another notable thing was the amount of road noise entering the cabin. Even at 30 miles per hour, there was a constant tire roar from the Falken Sinceras. It put me in mind of a certain Outback from 2012, suggesting a need for additional sound insulation. The Jetta is quieter at speed. There was also some wind noise coming from the b-pillar, which seemed only on the driver’s side. By the way, one cannot operate the Passat at surface street speeds with even one window down, as “helicopter” style buffeting is intense. This is particularly true with the rear windows open. Steering is neutral in feel, electric, and does not impart any sense of feedback. It’s about what you’d expect in the CamCord class of car, and most drivers will not find it objectionable. There was a bit more on-center dead space than preferred, but that was only notable at very slow speeds. The $23,000 Passat in S trim is a basic experience, as dictated by price, and an Ace of Base is a good thing for the customer on a tight budget who seeks value. But this sort of fundamental cost-cutting tips things toward the negative. The Passat’s most glaring faults wouldn’t be fixed by an escalation of trim and spend. Things like the dated underpinnings, off-center wheel, engine and transmission combo, wind buffeting, and the road noise will be present on all trims. Quality concerns like the wobbly climate knobs could be fixed with the dual-zone control of the SEL, but it shouldn’t be necessary to pony up to resolve such issues. The Passat used to be a European-built alternative to Japanese and Korean mid-market sedans. Here in The Current Year, it’s a Tennessee-based leftover whose competition (and indeed its siblings in other markets) have left it behind. Pick something else. +++9
2019 Toyota Sequoia Review – Proven Presence By Chris Tonn on January 10, 2020 2019 Toyota Sequoia front quarter 2019 Toyota Sequoia Limited 4x4 5.7-liter V8, DOHC (381 hp @ 5,600 rpm, 401 lb-ft @ 3,600 rpm) Six-speed automatic transmission, four wheel drive 13 city / 17 highway / 14 combined (EPA Rating, MPG) 18.4 city / 13.8 highway / 16.4 combined (NRCan Rating, L/100km)15.1 (observed mileage, MPG) Base Price: $61,715 US / $70,237 CAD As Tested: $63,638 US/ $70,237 CAD Prices include $1295 destination charge in the United States and $1,947 for freight, PDI, and A/C tax in Canada and, because of cross-border equipment differences, can’t be directly compared. Advertisement Powered By Do you remember 2008? I do. I was six years into a career in sales with a Fortune 500 company that I figured I’d retire from. I had an 18-month-old daughter, with a second on the way toward the end of the year. I had a shiny silver Motorola Razr cell phone, though some of my colleagues were gushing about a newfangled device from Apple that married a phone with an iPod. Well, I now have two daughters in and around their teen years, each of whom have a smartphone fancier than that first iPhone. I’ve moved around to a few different sales careers, supplementing my income (to pay for those daughters and their data plan) by writing. Things change. Except at Toyota, it seems, as they are still making the 2019 Toyota Sequoia with very few changes since the waning days of the Bush administration. But people keep buying them, so there must be a reason for it. 2019 Toyota Sequoia profile It’s big. It’s old. It’s thirsty. Yes, I’m well aware that all three of those could describe your author as well, but these fine pages won’t pay for a review of a used 1978-model Ohioan. Maybe the term that best describes the Sequoia is trusty. While the competition moves toward smaller turbocharged engines and transmissions with eight to ten gears, this twin-cam V8 and six-speed automatic have been reliable motivators for Toyota trucks and SUVs for more than a decade. 2019 Toyota Sequoia front2019 Toyota Sequoia rear 381 horsepower and 401 lb-ft of torque are still competitive, moving this big hauler down the road with no drama. Depending on trim, the Sequoia will tow up to 7,400 pounds – my tester, with four-wheel drive, is rated for 7,100 pounds. 2019 Toyota Sequoia rear cargo folded2019 Toyota Sequoia rear cargo upright The Sequoia still drives like the full-size truck upon which it’s based. The steering is numb, almost disconnected from the road. The brake pedal has a long, soft travel. This is not a rig you drive to hustle down back roads – it’s happiest on the interstate, eating up the miles and the 87 octane. 2019 Toyota Sequoia interior The ride quality is quite good, considering a curb weight just shy of three tons. Credit the well-damped independent rear suspension, which swallows the ever-present potholes and expansion joints with aplomb. After the typical sister fight over God knows what, I banished the oldest to the third row. It wasn’t the punishment that I’d hoped for, as she had plenty of room to stretch and text in peace. The second row in my tester was fitted with optional captain’s chairs, which were nearly as comfortable as the fronts. 2019 Toyota Sequoia front seats2019 Toyota Sequoia second row2019 Toyota Sequoia third row Toyota has updated some bits throughout the car – a smallish 6.1-inch touchscreen for navigation and audio would have been really weird in 2008, after all – and the Toyota Safety Sense-P suite of safety features (blind spot monitor, rear cross-traffic alert, pre-collision, automatic braking, lane departure alert, and adaptive cruise control) are welcome additions to make those long highway cruises just a bit easier. The row of five large control knobs across the center of the dash looks dated, but they are self-explanatory to use, rather than diving into menus on a massive touchscreen just to change fan speeds. 2019 Toyota Sequoia dash It’s a trope that I’m both annoyed by and guilty of writing – the frequent complaints of cheap, hard plastics in the interiors of many different vehicles. My notes from driving this Sequoia mention the plastics. Indeed, the interior is cheap feeling, but a chance ride in an older Sequoia reminded me of the merits of that hard plastic. That eight-or-so year old SUV had its share of scuffs on panels inside and out, evidence of a life spent hauling a little bit of everything and everyone – but that interior had held up beautifully. No squeaks or rattles save the random kids’ toy rolling from the third row. No trim bits falling off after a too-hard door slam from a moody teen that had been banished to the back row. I’ve no doubt that a new Sequoia will be a perfectly solid truck at the end of the loan term, which is not a statement I can make about everything on the road. 2019 Toyota Sequoia center stack It’s easy to dump on the Toyota Sequoia as a dinosaur. It’s certainly not the right choice for me and my family – I have no need to tow anything, it’s too thirsty, and it’s a bit ponderous to park in the urban environments I frequently encounter. But for those who need the space and capacity, it’s a choice that should prove to be a long-term family companion. +++9
2020 Jeep Grand Cherokee Limited X 4×4 Review – Aging Stalwart By Tim Healey on January 9, 2020 2020 Jeep Grand Cherokee Limited X 2020 Jeep Grand Cherokee Limited X 4x4 3.6-liter V6 (up to 295 horsepower @ 6,400 rpm; 260 lb-ft @ 4,000 rpm) Eight-speed automatic, four-wheel drive 18 city / 25 highway / 21 combined (EPA Rating, MPG) 12.7 city, 9.6 highway, 11.3 combined. (NRCan Rating, L/100km) Base Price: $41,855 (U.S) / $64,035* (Canada) As Tested: $52,035 (U.S.) / $58,030 (Canada) Prices include $1,495 destination charge in the United States and $1,995 (up to $2,695) for freight, PDI, and A/C tax in Canada and, because of cross-border equipment differences, can’t be directly compared. Asterisk denotes $8,000 CAD discount applied by Jeep Canada Advertisement Powered By I knew I might need wheels during a week-long trip to Los Angeles. I was hoping for something well-suited for a run over the Angeles Crest Highway. Instead, a Jeep Grand Cherokee was the vehicle available. I hadn’t driven one in years, but I’ve always been fond of the current generation — a generation that is aging rapidly. Would the ravages of time sour my opinions? Short answer: No. While aging, the Grand Cherokee remains a pleasant SUV for around-town commuting, with off-road capability in its back pocket. (Full disclosure: Jeep loaned me this Cherokee while I was in Los Angeles for the LA Auto Show). My test JGC came equipped with the 3.6-liter V6, which I found during past drives to be an adequate replacement for Hemi V8 power, at least around town. That remains true, although LA’s hillier streets challenged the V6 a bit. That’s because asking “up to” 295 horsepower and 260 lb-ft of torque to motivate over 4,500 pounds isn’t easy. I took the Jeep to the famed Angeles Crest Highway northeast of LA, because why not, and the Grand Cherokee was a willing if awkward dance partner. Unsurprisingly, the V6 struggled a bit in them thar hills, but the steering feels rather well dialed-in for an electric unit, with appropriate weight. While the Grand Cherokee is no cornering champ – hello, body roll – its on-road manners are quite good for an SUV that’s more associated with venturing off-road. At least until it’s time to brake. The Jeep’s binders predictably weren’t up to the task in the mountains, softening quickly as the road got tougher. This was somewhat expected – the fact that the brakes were just as soft around-town, even days after the mountain run, was not. The Jeep worked just fine as a freeway cruiser, isolating noise well and riding smoothly on LA’s mostly pristine roads. The occasional broken pavement didn’t upset it. 2020 Jeep Grand Cherokee Limited X I had plenty of head- and legroom and as usual, Jeep’s infotainment system and hard controls work well and are laid out simply and logically. Some of the materials are a let down, given that with options, my test vehicle rang the register at $52,035. The Limited X is one of the lower available trims, but it still cost 40 large just to start. A $4,900 option package added a whole slew of features, including 20-inch wheels, black roof rails and exterior accents, body-color fascias and a body color sill extension, dual dark chrome exhaust tips, LED fog lamps, special badging, black grille, bi-xenon HID headlights, shift paddles, Pirelli performance all-season tires, and LED DRLs. That’s on top of standard features such as in-car Wi-Fi, satellite radio, keyless entry, remote start, power liftgate, Uconnect infotainment, Apple CarPlay, Android Auto, dual USB, auxiliary port, blind-spot detection, rear cross-path detection, and heated front seats. 2020 Jeep Grand Cherokee Limited X Another $1,495 gets you adaptive cruise control, brake assist, forward-collision warning, lane-departure warning, parking assist, and rain-sensitive wipers.  A dual panoramic sunroof adds another $1,495. A subwoofer and amplifier and noise-control system pop you for another $795, and the destination charge is yet another $1,495. Two packages and a D and D fee that all are the same price? Someone find Nic Cage — we have a clue towards the next national treasure. At this point, the Grand Cherokee feels almost like a national treasure. It’s one of Jeep’s most iconic nameplates, along with Wrangler and Cherokee. When launched, it was one of the better mid-size SUVs on the market, and it remains competitive, if not long in the tooth. Yes, it was a let down on the backroads, but I expected that from a JGC not wearing Trackhawk or SRT badging. While I never went off-road, I am sure it would’ve been plenty capable. Jeeps usually are. 2020 Jeep Grand Cherokee Limited X Like so many SUVs, this is an around-town rig, no matter what it can do in the backwoods. For that purpose, it’s just fine. Yes, the brakes need firming, and yes, the vehicle’s weight can be felt even under normal stoplight-to-stoplight acceleration conditions. But it rides well and steers well, offers interior comfort and quiet, and has driver-friendly controls, plus a not-half-bad audio system. It’s getting old, but it’s aging gracefully. The next generation may be on sale by the end of this year, if rumors prove true, but the current generation has just a bit of life left. +++9
Gone Truckin’ Nuts — TTAC Compares Midsize Trucks By Chris Chin on December 19, 2019 The midsize pickup truck market was once thought dead, particularly in the wake of seemingly unstoppable sales in the full-size class. But after General Motors brought forth updated generations of the Chevrolet Colorado and the GMC Canyon a few years ago, Ford brought the Ranger back to North American shores, realizing that it couldn’t sit on the sidelines, joining the Japanese stalwarts – the Toyota Tacoma and Nissan Frontier. Now midsize pickup market isn’t just heating up, it’s starting to catch fire. Advertisement Powered By To see if they’re up to the task of some good ‘ole classic four-wheelin’, I took part in an event that rounded them all up — well, nearly all of them — at the Anthracite Outdoor Adventure Area in Eastern Pennsylvania for a day to test their off-road chops. Although they may not seem quite as imposing as the larger full-size pickups, these midsize brutes offer plenty of capability. Their smaller footprint also allows for easier maneuverability around tight trails. So a bunch of us auto journalists gathered up all the contenders in the most off-road-biased specification to duke it out for off-roading superiority: The Chevrolet Colorado ZR2 Bison, Ford Ranger FX4, Jeep Gladiator Rubicon, and Toyota Tacoma TRD Pro. Nissan’s Frontier sat this one out because it’s seemingly older than planet Earth itself and a completely new model is supposedly on the way. Also sitting out was the GMC Canyon, which is available with optional soft-roader All Terrain X trim. That trim is still just essentially a nicer Colorado and the Canyon “ATX” still doesn’t come as decked-out and trail-ready as the AEV-approved Colorado ZR2 Bison. The Anthracite Outdoor Adventure Area resides in the heart of Coal Township, Pennsylvania. Built upon 6,500 acres formerly dedicated to coal mines, the AOAA area consists of hundreds of miles of off-road trails for nearly all types of vehicles — a perfect testing ground for our four candidates. In the four-wheeling world, a general scale between zero to five helps to classify the difficulty of trails based on vehicle capability: Zero is the easiest of trails, which any passenger vehicle could traverse largely without issue. Think basically a simple dirt or gravel road. On the opposite end of the spectrum is a five-rated trail, which even most purpose-built and road-legal four-by-fours can’t cross without extensive modification. The trails we tackled brushed up upon a level-four trail, which typically necessitates the use of low-range, locking differentials, off-road tires, and high ground clearance. (Ed. note: The bolded “what we liked” sections are unique to this comparo, and don’t signify a change to our review format. Unless, of course, you like them.) So, which did it best? 2020 Jeep Gladiator What we liked: Every tool you’ll ever need to make off-roading an effortless experience; bad-ass long-bed Wrangler looks; an interior that always feels like an occasion What we didn’t like: Its length can make maneuvering tight spaces and sharp breakovers worrisome Verdict: The ultimate all-around overland and off-road midsize pickup If there’s one thing to be said about the Gladiator, it’s that it lives up to its namesake in spades while answering the calls of pickup lovers and Wrangler lovers alike. Around AOAA, it was hard to find another contender that did everything so well, all around. Aside from being the perfect tool for the job on paper — four-wheel-drive with low-range and multiple locking differentials, electronically detachable sway bars, and nearly unbeatable approach and departure angles — the Gladiator is clearly built for the job. When traversing over some of the rockiest bits and the toughest terrain we could find at AOAA, short of dirt bike trails, the Gladiator simply shrugged it all off as if it were a walk in the park. The suspension is clearly purpose-built and while all the other trucks seemed outrageously stiff and bouncy, the Gladiator ironed out all but the largest of rocks, making it the smoothest and most effortless truck to drive over the trails. The Jeep’s 3.6-liter V6 and eight-speed automatic is a pairing made in heaven. 2019 Chevrolet Colorado ZR2 Bison AEV What we liked: Bad-ass rugged looks, as tough as it appears, felt like it was the most capable of the bunch What we didn’t like: Bouncy ride and body motions when rock crawling, V6 needs a good revving to get into the powerband, confusing electronic four-wheel controls Verdict: If off-roading is the priority, the Colorado ZR2 Bison AEV is the sharpest tool of the bunch The Colorado ZR2 Bison is the most rugged of the bunch with a seal of approval from one of the biggest names in aftermarket off-road equipment, American Expedition Vehicles. It clearly showed while exploring AOAA. With specially designed DSSV shock absorbers, 32–inch Goodyear Duratrac all-terrain tires, and AEV boron steel skid plates; We felt like we were just grazing the surface of the Colorado’s potential. With those grippy off-road tires and toughened undersides, any thought about getting stuck or damaging the undercarriage simply never crossed our minds. There were a few compromises, however. While the Colorado excelled at its off-road capability and prowess, it did so at the expense of comfort, similarly to how a track-biased sports car isn’t the best daily driver. While seemingly the most capable, it also felt a bit taxing during the whole experience. While the Gladiator smoothly coasted over its obstacles, the Colorado bounced around and jostled its occupants as if we were actually trying to ride on the back of a wild bison. 2019 Ford Ranger FX4 What we liked: Just as smooth over the trails as the Jeep, beefy turbo-four, easy maneuverability What we didn’t like: Least amount of ground clearance meant a lot of underbody bumping and scraping Verdict: Nearly as refined as the Gladiator, but with a much more tolerable length. The Ford Ranger’s third-place rank in this comparison isn’t meant to disparage its off-road capability; as it handled everything we could throw at it just as well as all the other contenders. It’s certainly equipped for the job with its optional FX4 Off-Road Package, which features off-road-tuned shocks, Dana AdvanTEK independent axles, underbody steel skid plates, an electronic-locking diff, and controllable transfer case, and Ford’s latest Terrain Management System. But the Ranger felt the most challenged by the terrain. It matches the Chevy for the least amount of ground clearance at 8.9 inches and thus, we found that it bumped and scraped over the rockier and rougher bits of AOAA, while all the others treaded over obstacles without needing extra care. Otherwise, it was quite easy to drive the Ranger throughout the park, as long as the surface didn’t include large, pointy rocks. Similarly to the Gladiator, the Ranger just seemed to cruise smoothly over some of the rougher trails. Its 270-horsepower, 2.3-liter EcoBoost turbocharged four-cylinder convinced all of us that it felt like there was a greater cylinder count under the hood. 2019 Toyota Tacoma TRD Pro What we liked: One of the few in its class with a manual, a powerhouse of a motor, as rugged feeling as it looks What we didn’t like: The side rails with step extensions hindered ground clearance (so much that we accidentally broke one-off), poor outward visibility, cramped feeling interior Verdict: The oldest truck of the bunch, but the most honest-feeling workhorse, if that’s what you’re after The Tacoma TRD Pro is probably the most seasoned truck here, having been around in its current guise since 2016. As a result, the Tacoma TRD Pro definitely feels like the truck most in need of an update, being almost void of any of the gadgets found in any of the other contenders. For example, it didn’t have hill-descent control, a result of having a manual transmission. The upside to the minimalistic package is that the Tacoma probably felt like the purist truck of the bunch, if not a bit old-school. Its 3.5-liter naturally-aspirated V6 is an absolute powerhouse and probably the most-desired engine of the bunch. With plenty of low-end grunt, it made rock crawling and water fording seem effortless. With low-range engaged, the Tacoma confidently climbed over the rocky bits while sitting at idle in first gear, proving that it’s clearly up to the task. If you’re looking for the most honest and fluff-free trucks of them all, then the Tacoma TRD Pro is the truck to get, despite its dated feeling. No matter the terrain: Whether it be dirt, rocky trails, muddy water pits, or steep inclines that left nothing but the sky as the view forward, all of these trucks are clearly built for places like AOAA. What it all comes down to really is a matter of splitting hairs. All of our contenders are purpose-built machines with more than enough grunt and capability to tackle some of nature’s most difficult surfaces. It comes down to which machine suits your needs and purposes and where your taste lies. But one thing’s for sure, all these trucks are certainly up to the task. That said, we rated the Gladiator as the best overall of the bunch. Chalk another one up for the Jeep. +++9
2020 Nissan Sentra First Drive – Back in the Game By Tim Healey on December 16, 2019 2020 Nissan Sentra I was focusing on the road while piloting the 2020 Nissan Sentra down the canyon roads just outside Los Angeles, yet somehow I didn’t notice the previous-generation Sentra headed in the opposite direction that my drive partner pointed out. Advertisement Powered By In fact, I had a hard time even picturing in my head what the outgoing Sentra looks like. That’s because, like the cheaper Versa, the old Sentra had become quite forgettable. And just like the newest Versa, the newest Sentra is actually memorable again. (Full disclosure: Nissan flew me to Los Angeles, put me in a nice hotel, and fed me.) The 2020 Sentra has the same overall look as other sedans in the Nissan stable. Normally I’m not a fan of companies using similar design throughout the lineup, differentiating only by size, but the strategy works here. It makes the Sentra look sharp as opposed to the forgettable (there’s that word again) blob of meh the previous-gen car was. The car also looks larger than it is, perhaps thanks to being 2 inches lower and wider than previous. Inside, the redesign brings about nicer materials that also look more upmarket than before, although the Sentra gets the slapped-on infotainment screen that drives this author nuts. Underhood is a 2.0-liter four-banger that makes 149 horsepower and 146 lb-ft of torque. It’s the only engine choice, and the continuously-variable automatic transmission (CVT) is the sole transmission. Sentra is front-wheel-drive only. 2020 Nissan Sentra Compact sedans are mostly meant to be reliable transportation, but being engaging never hurt anyone. This new Sentra won’t be the enthusiast’s choice – look at Mazda, VW, or Honda for that – but it’s at least on par (or close to on par) with the Hyundai Elantra. There’s actual heft from dual-pinion electric power steering, and a decent amount of feedback. The standard multi-link independent rear suspension is helpful. Just because the Sentra handles relatively well doesn’t make the presence of the D-shaped steering wheel any less laughable. If I were Nissan, I’d save that for a NISMO or SE-R trim, should one ever come about. Sentra’s ride is just fine on smooth Southern California roads, but we’ll have to wait and see how it deals with Midwestern potholes. Wheel sizes are 16-, 17-, and 18-inch. Interior materials seem upmarket for the price, with the cheapest materials being out of easy sight and reach. Rear-seat room was surprising, although the front seats were a bit short in terms of thigh bolstering. 2020 Nissan Sentra The CVT whines predictably when the go pedal is pressed hard, although it does perform “step” gear changes. Sentra’s relative lightweight amount of power is perhaps the car’s biggest on-road flaw – you’ll have jusssst enough juice for around-town cut-and-thrust and perhaps freeway merging, but not for much else. No one will confuse this car for a compact sportster, but it’s lively enough around-town (at least in terms of handling, if not acceleration) to be acceptable, especially for this price point. That price point is $19,090 to start, not including the $925 destination fee. That’s for the base S trim. There’s two other trims, SV and SR. Standard features include Nissan’s SafetyShield 360 suite of driver-assist aids (automatic emergency braking with pedestrian detection, lane-departure warning, blind-spot warning, rear cross-traffic alert, and rear automatic braking), push-button start, rear-door alert, USB port, Bluetooth, active ride control (works to keep things level under acceleration and braking), intelligent trace control (assists in cornering), and forward-collision warning. 2020 Nissan Sentra SV trims add 16-inch wheels, Apple CarPlay and Android Auto, 8-inch touchscreen, satellite radio, leather-wrapped steering wheel, three USB ports instead of one, remote keyless entry, heated exterior mirrors, dual-zone climate control, remote start, and smart cruise control. All for $20,270. A Premium package bumps the price to $22,730 and adds “jewel style” LED headlights, moonroof, 8-way power driver’s seat, 17-inch wheels, leather seats and shift knob, and heated front seats. SR models add 18-inch alloy wheels, LED headlights and fog lamps, rear spoiler, exhaust finisher, leather shift knob, black-pained heated exterior mirrors, and orange seat trim. That’s for $21,430, while a Premium package pushes the price to $23,600 and adds the same “jewel style” LED headlights, moonroof, and 8-way power driver’s seat as the SV Premium, plus Bose audio, uplevel seats with orange stitching, heated front seats and steering wheel, around-view camera, auto-dimming rearview mirror, and illuminated vanity mirrors. The only major feature missing is factory nav, but CarPlay/Android Auto can be used to navigate. 2020 Nissan Sentra The SR Premium I drove cost $25,325. Two-tone (orange/black) paint added $595, and floor mats another $205. Fuel economy is listed by Nissan (the Sentra doesn’t yet appear on the EPA’s fuel-economy site) at 29 mpg city/39 mpg highway/33 combined in S and SV models, and 28/37/32 for SV trims. This new Sentra probably won’t drive you wild with excitement, but it’s a far better package than what it replaces. It looks better inside and out (and the higher-trim interior looks fairly upscale), it handles well enough, the steering isn’t a ball of mush, the ride is pleasant. It only lacks for power (and factory nav). 2020 Nissan Sentra It’s also comfortable and quiet (unless you rouse the CVT). Nissan isn’t trying to sell the Sentra as anything but a solid commuter car that won’t break the bank or leave you embarrassed, and that’s exactly what this car is. The last Sentra was anything but memorable. While the new one won’t be on bedroom wall posters, it will at least be on shoppers’ minds. +++9
Hyundai’s RM19 Previews the Brand’s Performance Future By Tim Healey on December 16, 2019 Hyundai RM19 I drove the racetrack-ready Hyundai RM19 prototype, and I didn’t crash it. Advertisement Powered By The day after the Los Angeles Auto Show, while most of the rest of the assembled automotive media was either at home or in an airplane heading that way, I was in a shuttle bus heading north from Westwood/Beverly Hills towards the desert. Awaiting me would be the RM19 high-performance version of the Hyundai Veloster N. The bus was ferrying me to Hyundai’s Proving Grounds located in/near California City, California. In addition to driving the RM19, I’d autocross a production Veloster N against the clock – something I did on the launch last year, outside of Sacramento – and be offered the chance to ride right-seat with a pro driver on an autocross in a race-prepped Veloster N. I’d also get to off-road a Palisade SUV and take a Nexo fuel-cell crossover around the high-speed track. I skipped the right-seat ride due to lack of time, and I have little to say about autocross or the off-road. Those were merely repeats of experiences I’ve had before. The story here is the RM19, which Hyundai claims is a preview of future N products. That exact future isn’t yet clear. (Full disclosure: Hyundai paid for my hotel room, meals, and return flight from Los Angeles so that I could attend this event). Basically, the RM19 is a testbed. Hyundai’s media materials say it “signals future high-performance potential for Hyundai N brand,” with the RM19 serving “as a development platform for future N brand products, including a potential brand-halo car.” Translation: If the demand is there, this car could be built to compete with other track-ready production cars, and if it’s not built, well, the lessons learned could be applied to the N. Hyundai’s sudden interest in performance is no coincidence, seeing as Albert Biermann, formerly of BMW, is now in charge of R&D. The engine is moved to mid-ships on the RM19 (hence the RM part of the name, which stands for Racing Midship), and the Touring Car Racing-based 2.0-liter turbo four-cylinder makes “approximately” 390 horsepower (apparently tuned down to 360 for our test day. Overall, the car has a range of 320-390 horsepower). The rear-drive RM19 ditches the Veloster’s weird third door and adds a large rear wing and rear air ducts for the engine. Power gets to the rear wheels via a six-speed sequential manual transmission. Hyundai reps tried to track down a torque figure for me but were unable to send it over before press time. Hyundai RM19 Hyundai claims the top speed of over 155 mph when not limited for public-road driving. There’s a MacPherson suspension setup out front and a double-wishbone system out back; the brakes feature six-piston calipers up front and four-piston calipers in the rear, plus a special ABS system that can only be used on the track. The power-steering unit is rack-mounted and motor-driven, and the tires (305 wide in the rear) sit upon lightweight forged aluminum-alloy wheels. Hyundai RM19 Tracking the car is quite the experience. Like with any race-prepped car, you need assistance getting belted in, thanks to the five-point racing harness. Hyundai set up a handful of chicanes on their handling loop to keep speeds down and to give us a chance to really dig into the brakes, while also accelerating out in second gear. We were also assigned a pro driver riding right seat for supervision and assistance. The gentleman I was paired with said nothing other than “chicane” (meaning “brake here”) for the chicanes on my warm-up lap. I assume his silence was a good thing. Hyundai’s handling loop is flat, and being in the middle of the desert, it lacks visual references for braking and turn-in. Between that, and the fact that two other journos (one of whom is an accomplished racer) in my session looped the car before my turn (no sheetmetal was bent, but one tire was cut by some desert brush and needed to be replaced), I knew I’d likely be driving this car very conservatively. Hyundai RM19 Getting out of the pit was tricky – the sequential manual only requires you to use the clutch when stopping and starting, but the clutch is heavy and it’s easy to stall. I managed to get rolling with no drama, however. The RM19’s paddle shifters provide instant shifts, and as you’d expect from a track car, gear changes are more raw than smooth. Acceleration is, unsurprisingly, swift, giving you a kick in the ass when you get on the gas. Hyundai RM19 I couldn’t tell you how fast I was going, since I never looked down at the dash (the car’s interior is pretty close to the standard N, but with some race-ready equipment, including a racing steering wheel that has all the necessary buttons and knobs). Given the car’s power and the length of the straights that weren’t coned off for the chicanes, I was probably hitting highway speeds and maybe flirting with triple digits – but maybe not, since I was being a bit cautious. As you’d expect, turn-in is instant and direct, and the brakes bite hard. While this car is street legal in Europe and likely street legal in the U.S. (a Hyundai rep wasn’t sure), it’s essentially a racecar, and it has racecar reflexes. Not racecar-like, but straight-up racecar. Hyundai RM19 That also means you feel every single imperfection in the pavement, not that there are many on a private road in the middle of the desert that’s maintained by an automaker. The drive is exhilarating but exhausting, or at least it would be over a longer period of time. Three laps flies by too quickly. With more time, I’d have built up more courage to push the car harder – I was already starting to settle into a groove as my session ended. Still, even driven relatively gently, I could sense the car’s performance potential. That’s the keyword – potential. It’s highly unlikely that Hyundai would build a street version of this car, although a spokesman told me the idea isn’t off the table. He used the phrase “forms of production potential.” In other words, Hyundai could use the RM19 to simply work on a new engine or transmission, or they could build something streetable off this platform. One powertrain possibility is an even more souped-up version of Hyundai’s 2.5-liter four-cylinder turbo and eight-speed dual-clutch automatic transmission combo found in the upcoming Sonata N Line. Hyundai also indicated that an electric motor could find its way underhood. Hyundai RM19 Whatever Hyundai has planned, it certainly didn’t pay for journalists to come all the way out to the desert for no reason. The autocross, the off-road, the rides with the pros, time with the Nexo – none of that, on its own, justifies a dip into the PR budget. No, we were there for the RM19, and not just because Hyundai wanted to give 30 journalists a chance to have fun with it. If Hyundai doesn’t have something in mind for this testbed, it wouldn’t spend the money for us to drive it. Hyundai RM19 I can brag all I want about hitting 111 mph on the high-speed oval in the Nexo – apparently, the highest speed Hyundai ever sees in that crossover on the loop, and not a speed achieved often – but that’s not why Hyundai brought me there. Nor did they bring me there just so I could drive a racing-ready car. No, the RM19 definitely previews the brand’s performance future. That future is indeterminate. But if the brand comes up with something good based on the RM19 – whether a whole new car or just better performance from future iterations of the current lineup – I have no doubt it will be quite engaging to drive, at least based on what Hyundai has done with the RM. The brand may be known more for making commuter cars, but at the very least, it’s as capable of making good performance cars as anyone else. The Veloster N has already shown that. The RM19 serves to further quell doubts. +++9
2020 Mazda CX-30 First Drive: Not a CX-3 Replacement, but Maybe It Should Be By Chris Tonn on December 13, 2019 2020 Mazda CX-30 lead image Keen observers of the new car market have taken note of the proliferation of compact and subcompact crossovers, with new models shoved into niches seemingly too small to fit yet another jacked-up hatchback. Where once there might have been but a single model, today there are four or more edging more traditional cars off the showroom floor. Advertisement Powered By Mazda is no different. The CX-5 and CX-9 have won accolades as the driver’s choice among the myriad indifferent blobs clogging the lanes of every interstate and supermarket, while the subcompact CX-3 has proven to be a decent entry choice. But much like that one person behind you in the left lane who is determined to win the race to the exit half a mile ahead, Mazda is wedging its shield-shaped grille into any gap it can find. Thus, the 2020 Mazda CX-30. Logically, this would be the CX-4, but a different vehicle exists in other markets (China, mostly) using that badge – and since so many consumers cross-shop dealerships between Beijing and Bay City, it pays to minimize badge confusion. Where does the CX-30 fit on the Mazda lot? And does it fit in your garage? 2020 Mazda CX-30 profile (Disclosure: Mazda flew journalists to California to drive the CX-30, fed us, and put us up in a couple of hotels) Mazda is rightly proud of its Kodo styling language – a unified theme that makes each model across the lineup distinct yet clearly from the same pen. The CX-30 maintains that similar feel, with a second generation of Kodo design shared with the Mazda 3 sedan and hatchback. One feature that is quite noticeable is the sculpting on the vertical flanks that plays with the light, creating an “S” shape with light and shadow. 2020 Mazda CX-30 rear quarter Mazda claims the black plastic cladding covering several inches of every lower surface of the CX-30 visually lowers the car, making it look even more compact than it is. I’m not completely convinced – I’ve long held that black plastic is merely a way to butch up a vehicle that otherwise would be a hatchback. I’ll grant that said black plastic is much less likely to rust away to nothing, which is something that can’t be said of the rear quarter panels on every used Protégé 5 that appears in my frequent Craigslist searches. 2020 Mazda CX-30 front2020 Mazda CX-30 rear When comparing the CX-30 to the slightly smaller CX-3, Mazda notes that the cargo area, beyond being measurably larger, is much easier to access, with a wider, taller aperture (with a lower lift-over height) that makes loading piles of whatever active fellow kids are hauling these days a much simpler affair. My drive partner had no problems with a pair of rolling suitcases and a pair of large backpacks remaining below the level of the rear seatback. I’d imagine they’d sit below the cargo cover, but our early production models did not have the port-installed cargo covers fitted before delivery to the event. About that cargo hold – it manages 20.2 cubic feet with the rear seat upright, a 62-percent increase over the tiny space in the CX-3 and right in range with competitors in the subcompact arena, among them the Hyundai Kona, Subaru Crosstrek, and Jeep Renegade. In every dimension inside and out, the CX-30 is a touch larger than baby brother CX-3, with more head room front and rear, more shoulder and hip room, and 3.3 inches longer wheelbase. Steph took a deeper look at the dimensions a few months back. The increases in interior space, while matters of an inch or two here or there, make a big difference. My drive partner was a gentleman with a similar (over six feet tall) stature as myself, and we had no complaints of becoming overwhelmingly cramped upon one another in the front seat. The chairs were quite comfortable for a day’s drive through the unusually rainy desert mountains, with plenty of support for my lower back and thighs. Rear seating is improved upon the CX-3, with rear headroom up 1.1 inches. However, passengers over six feet will still not be happy in the second row – I tried to sit back there and, while I could have managed with my legs pressed a bit into the front seatback, my head was uncomfortably canted while pressed against the headliner. Mazda is marketing the CX-30 to singles and young families, for which I can see the car working well. However, if you plan on growing professional athletes in any sport beyond gymnastics or thoroughbred horse racing, you’ll likely move to a larger vehicle by their tweens. Mazda made a big deal of its upgraded infotainment system, first seen in the Mazda3. It is indeed more responsive than before, quickly selecting tracks or stations rather than noticeably lagging when the central control dial is spun or toggled. That dial falls, as old magazines used to say about a perfectly placed shift lever, readily to hand. The gearhead deep inside feels almost ill linking the feel of a radio knob to that of a walnut-topped gearshift, but as modern cars have the driver relinquish much of the mechanical controls to a computer, there are basically but four inputs the driver typically commands while driving: steering wheel, throttle pedal, brake pedal, and audio controls. Beyond the leather interior seen here – with its deep brown finishes atop the dash, the door panels, and the armrest, and with either off-white or black seats – a new navy-blue interior will be offered on models clad with cloth seating surfaces. Unfortunately, every CX-30 available to drive was a loaded-up Premium AWD trim, so we didn’t get to see it in person. The materials throughout the cabin speak to Mazda’s commitment to a more premium lineup meant not to compete with mainstream marques. The leather is soft, with perfect perforations and exquisite stitching. The plastics feel high-quality, with no color differences from panel to panel. The sound quality from the audio system was excellent. The CX-30 has an interesting speaker arrangement – the bass woofers are mounted well forward into the cowl structure, rather than in the lower corners of the door panels. No matter how loudly we cranked the volume, we couldn’t elicit rattles from the doors. Isolation from road noise was quite good, save for a touch of wind noise over the A-pillars at freeway speeds. Performance was quite good, as the CX-30 is fitted standard with the familiar 2.5-liter Skyactiv-G four cylinder, producing 186 horsepower at 6,000 rpm and 186 lb-ft of torque at 4,000 rpm. The CX-3 makes do with 148 hp and 146 lb-ft, though the smaller car does have around four hundred fewer pounds to haul. When optioned up with AWD and the premium package like my tester, the CX-30 tips the scales at 3,408 pounds. Fuel economy on this CX-30 AWD is rated at 25 mpg city, 32 mpg highway, and 27 mpg combined. The handling is quite comfortable for a small car, with the long wheelbase providing great stability on the interstate and excellent tossability in the twisties. Mountain two-lanes don’t scream “crossover territory” to me – I wanted to ask Mazda where they were hiding the Miatas – but the CX-30 didn’t embarrass itself when pushed into corners. The roads were wet, with some treacherous fog in the higher altitudes, and while the sheer drops did make me clench a bit when moving through the clouds, I never felt as if the car couldn’t handle everything we were tossing at it. For a small, mostly independent automaker like Mazda, the old line about cutting prices and making it up in volume just doesn’t work. Thus, Mazda has made an effort to position each of its cars not in the mainstream, but as a value-priced alternative to traditional luxury marques. That’s where this CX-30 so closely overlaps the CX-3. An Ace of Base CX-30 can be had for $21,900 plus destination, where the CX-3 is $20,390. Loaded up similarly (CX-3 GT AWD with Premium Package versus CX-30 AWD Premium) the stickers are still close – $30,645 delivered for CX-30 against $28,900 delivered for CX-3. I actually asked Mazda if the CX-30 was actually a replacement for the CX-3 (as of press time, the build-and-price tool on mazdausa.com doesn’t show a 2020 model CX-3). I was told that the plan is for the CX-3 to continue for model year 2020, and was cheekily reminded that the MX-5 Miata is still showing 2019 as the newest model year, as well. Still, I can’t imagine many, given the choice between the two, would choose the smaller model. The 2020 Mazda CX-30 is a much more competitive subcompact crossover – with room, style, and driving spirit to spare. For me, the choice is clear. +++9
2019 Honda Civic Type R Review – Haunting My Dreams By Chris Tonn on November 25, 2019 2019 Honda Civic Type R profile 2019 Honda Civic Type R Touring 2.0-liter turbocharged four (306 hp @ 6500 rpm, 295 lb/ft. @ 2500 rpm) Six-speed manual transmission, front-wheel drive 22 city / 28 highway / 25 combined (EPA Rating, MPG) 26.1 (observed mileage, MPG) 10.6 city / 8.3 highway / 9.6 combined (NRCan Rating, L/100km) Base Price: $36.620 US / $43,476 CAD As Tested: $36,620 US/ $43,476 CAD Prices include $920 destination charge in the United States and $1786 for freight, PDI, and A/C tax in Canada and, because of cross-border equipment differences, can’t be directly compared. Advertisement Powered By As I’ve mentioned before, reviewing cars here at TTAC is not my primary career. At best, I get a few hours a week working in my basement office to pound out prose that the Best and Brightest loves to critique. As such, I don’t always get around to writing about each car I’ve driven until several weeks (or more) later. As the calendar pages tear away furiously toward a new year, like many I’ve taken stock of what I’ve done over the past eleven months. I’m realizing that of the cars I’ve had the pleasure of wheeling, there are only a few that I can legitimately picture myself buying. These cars are objects of desire and obsession for a gearhead like yours truly. The 2019 Honda Civic Type R is at the top of the list, certainly. The blend of incredible performance and everyday utility make it a favorite of many reviewers. But that’s the problem – everybody’s written about it. What can this part-time auto scribe say about it that hasn’t yet been said? 2019 Honda Civic Type R front quarter Plenty of derision has been heaped upon the styling of the Type R. Yeah, the wing is a bit garish, but it’s mounted high enough to not interfere with rear visibility. I’d be tempted to consider a delete option if it were available, but it’s not a deal breaker. One doesn’t buy a Civic Type R to blend into a crowd. 2019 Honda Civic Type R front That is exactly why I’m puzzled by the Sonic Gray Pearl paint applied to my tester. It almost looks as if it should be a matte finish, though it’s glossy like any other typical paint. It simply looks dull. I’d love it if Honda would open up the cabinets in the paint shop a bit – Phoenix Yellow from the fabled Integra Type R would be lovely. Otherwise, it’s Championship White for my CTR. 2019 Honda Civic Type R rear Oh, for those who really care about such things, the 2019 Civic Type R has one major change inside: it has a real volume knob for the stereo. 2019 Honda Civic Type R center stack I’m a bit bothered by the mismatch between the front and rear seats – front seats are primarily red with touches of black trim, while the rear bench is black with red stitching and seatbelts. I know that Type Rs of yesteryear have been finished this way, but it’s jarring to my eye. It reminds me of tuner cars with mismatching seats, fitted when the cash-strapped owner could manage to afford something. I could learn to live with it, I’m sure, as the front seats are marvelous. The bolsters, while deep and firm, are set just wide enough to squeeze my ample backside in place when hucking this ultimate hot hatch into corners at inadvisable speeds. They’re no substitute for proper fixed-back racing shells, but they will suit weekend warriors at track days or autocrosses perfectly. 2019 Honda Civic Type R front seats2019 Honda Civic Type R seat logo Like any other Civic, of course, the rear seat is plenty comfortable for my ever-growing tweens – but just those two, as the Civic Type R has but two seatbelts and a hard plastic cupholder situated where a third butt might normally sit. It’s not often I need to haul five – and I do have a minivan for that purpose – but when we need to run my daughter’s friend to a birthday party it’d be nice to have the option to do so legally. 2019 Honda Civic Type R rear seat Honestly, though, I’d really prefer to drive the Civic Type R solo – at least when pointed toward the more enjoyable roads in Southeastern Ohio. The lack of bolstering on the rear seat cushion would lead to a pair of kids sliding to and fro as I hustle through the twisties, with a better-than-average chance at a minced oath or three being uttered while they fight back motion sickness. This car simply sticks. At least at the speeds I subjected it to (I couldn’t manage to get to a track day during my week with the CTR), this hottest hatch just kept going with no drama. 2019 Honda Civic Type R interior Three hundred and six horsepower – paired with 295 lb/ft of torque down low at 2500 rpm – made pulling away from corners a cinch. Doing something stupid, like dramatically stomping the pedal while the steering wheel is still unwinding, is rewarded with relentless pulling through the corner, rather than dramatic wheelspin thanks to the factory helical limited-slip differential. The steering is beautifully weighted, with the leather-wrapped tiller communicating exactly what the front wheels are saying. 2019 Honda Civic Type R gauges I’d be tempted to source a new shift knob for the excellent six-speed manual – the matte-finished metal knob can get hot enough to scorch the loops and whorls from your digits. 2019 Honda Civic Type R dashboard Beyond the lack of a fifth seatbelt, this is just a Civic with more. It’s perfectly useable in daily driving. The ride is firm, but not punishing. The exhaust note isn’t overly loud. The tire noise isn’t too bad. This is a performance car that can handle track duty and commuter duty with equal aplomb. 2019 Honda Civic Type R badge I’ll date myself here a bit – when The Fast and the Furious film hit screens, I was enamored. I immediately subscribed to Sport Compact Car magazine and began clipping tech articles for later (when I had a car worthy of modifying in the style of the film). I kept shopping for an older Honda Civic, but even then, my choices for a clean car were getting slim. The phrase I kept seeing in advertisements was “Fully Built,” which in theory means the car was modified to the fullest extent – but in reality meant the seller wanted to turn a profit off of the parts bolted to a rusty shell of a car. My most memorable “fully built” shopping experience led me to The Hilltop, a neighborhood that is currently in the very early stages of gentrification. A dozen years ago, however, the area was seriously rough. As was the car, a 1989 Civic Si with a coffee can for an exhaust tip and holes in the floorboard big enough for my size twelves. And yet I test drove the thing, briefly. Seems the seller had a side hustle in recreational agriculture, and the remnants permeated the entire car. I couldn’t get away fast enough, but I reflexively stopped for a Coke and a bag of Doritos shortly after leaving. 2019 Honda Civic Type R r badge My point is that fast Civics have long been the domain of a younger generation – one that had more ambition than cash. Many of those young, cheap enthusiasts have grown up and earned to buy something new, clean, and warrantied. Had I managed to save some of my earnings over the past decade or so, this Honda Civic Type R would most certainly be on my list – because for once, this hotrod Civic is “fully built” from the factory. +++9
Cruise Unveils Origin, a Self-Driving Vehicle with No Steering Wheel or Pedals This autonomous electric minivan is meant to make Uber, Lyft, and commuting in a personal car obsolete. image By Roberto Baldwin JAN 22, 2020 Cruise Automation is a California startup bankrolled by GM and Honda. The company has been testing specially built self-driving Chevrolet Bolt EV crossovers in the San Francisco Bay Area since September 2016. This new minivan-look electric bus will hold four passengers—no drivers, though—and is expected to be producible for half the cost of a conventional EV. There's no lack of hype surrounding autonomous vehicles in Silicon Valley. Today, autonomous-vehicle startup Cruise Automation ratcheted up the self-driving buzz even more by unveiling the electric driverless bus shown here. The company says it expects its Level 5 (autonomous without steering wheel and pedals) vehicle to start offering rides via a Cruise pilot program. The Cruise Origin was unveiled at the company's "Moving beyond the Car" event in San Francisco. It'll hold four passengers with plenty of legroom. The doors open like the back doors of a minivan. While the company was acquired by GM in 2016 and has Honda investment, the ride-hailing service will be branded Cruise. The electric platform is built by GM, but the company otherwise gave no specs—not battery size, not range, not price, not even where it will be built. Self-Driving Self-Service image GM's Cruise Said to Reveal Fully Driverless Car image Self-Driving Truck Hauls Butter Cross-Country image Self-Driving Cars Are More Like Us Than We Think The Origin resembles many of the other squarish small buses we've seen from startups and automakers. It's a bit like a smaller Toyota e-Pallet. The outside corners are home to sensors, including lidar. On the current Cruise vehicles—Chevrolet Bolt EVs—a crown of technology made of roof-mounted radar, lidar, and cameras helps guide them through the city. Getting the autonomous bus on the road will require additional research and testing. The company spoke briefly about the trials of driving on busy San Francisco streets and how much that has helped them improve their artificial intelligence. During three years of testing using Chevy Bolt EVs with safety drivers, the startup says it has built three or four generations of the vehicle. This newest generation—built without steering wheel or pedals—has not been driven on public roads yet. VIEW PHOTOS Cruise Origin Roberto Baldwin As for regulators, Ammann says that the company is talking with NHTSA about bringing the Origin to the road. Having it built by GM should give the startup a leg up over other mobility companies in that regard. Unfortunately, even with GM on the hook for production, Cruise was mum about essential details about the vehicle. Cruise didn't share any information about battery size, range, power rating, how it'll charge, top speed, or how far the sensor suite can see. Where it'll be built won't even be announced for a few days. The only thing we do know is that the vehicle is claimed to be able to last a "million miles."Even though Cruise is backed by two major automakers (Honda and GM), CEO Dan Ammann is not a fan of the urban-transportation status quo. In a Medium post titled "We Need to Move beyond the Car" from December, he lambasted not only the one-driver, one-car commute scenario but also ride-hailing services that do little to ease congestion and in fact have been shown to increase gridlock. Ammann's plan would work with municipalities to augment their current public transportation systems. VIEW PHOTOS image Cruise Origin at San Francisco launch. Roberto BaldwinCar and Driver "We know the bus is better for the environment," Ammann said during the event. But as he noted, that's not always convenient. That's where he hopes the Cruise system fills the gap between public transportation and vehicle ownership. The Origin may be getting all the press right now, but it’s the company's third-generation Chevy Bolts that will be the first to offer rides to customers via an upcoming app and service from Cruise. Ammann wouldn’t comment on when the service would be going live, but it’ll be ahead of the launch of the Origin +++9
Tesla Will Soon Get to Sell Cars in Michigan—But There's a Catch The deal requires Michigan buyers to title their cars elsewhere, but they'll be able to purchase them without leaving the state, in a deal to be finalized in federal court this week. image By Mihir Maddireddy JAN 21, 2020 imageSomerset Collection Tesla hasn't been allowed to sell or service its vehicles in Michigan, so customers had to travel elsewhere for both. The automaker couldn't even discuss sales with customers in Michigan but will now be allowed to under a settlement currently in the works with the U.S. District Court, Reuters reported. Assuming the agreement is finalized, Michigan Tesla buyers can take delivery at home but will have to title their new cars in a different state or Canada and then transfer the title to Michigan. It’s tough to buy and own a Tesla in Michigan. For starters, there aren't any places allowed to sell you one; you have to physically go to another state to buy the car. C/D used Hearst Autos' fleet-rental company in North Carolina to complete the purchase of our long-term Tesla Model 3, which was delivered to the adjacent state of Ohio, where we picked it up. This leads to consumer-unfriendly experiences such as when our Model 3 broke down and had to be towed to Ohio. A new settlement between Tesla and the state of Michigan, reportedly about to be finalized in U.S. District Court, should allow the California EV carmaker to directly sell to customers in Michigan. Tesla Buying (and Updating) 2019 Tesla Model 3 As Tax Credits Expire, Tesla Model 3 Price Rises image Our Model 3 Is Much Quicker After Firmware Update 2019 Tesla Model 3 How Reliable Is the 2019 Tesla Model 3? Tesla filed the lawsuit in U.S. District Court in 2016 to overturn Michigan's ban on automakers selling directly to the public. Details of the settlement, as Reuters reported, are expected Wednesday. Reportedly, when it's finalized Tesla will be able to sell cars in Michigan, but they will have to be titled in another state or Canada, then transferred to Michigan. In that sense, this settlement doesn't fully fix the issue of Tesla direct sales in Michigan. It provides more of a workaround to the existing problem of having to travel outside the state to purchase a Tesla. Street view of Tesla motors showroom with cars inside and illuminated logo brandin at dusk London UK Tesla showroom in London, England. AdrianHancuGetty Images Tesla's lawsuit had claimed that a bill signed into law in 2014 by then-governor Rick Snyder was an anti-Tesla move that favored the likes of Ford, GM, and FCA, all of which are headquartered in Michigan. The EV maker also said at the time that the law was "harmful to consumers."Unlike most carmakers, which operate franchised dealerships with lots filled with cars, Tesla has opted for an unorthodox path when it came to getting cars into the hands of consumers. Instead of filling up dealership lots with cars, Tesla decided to open small stores in areas with high visibility, like shopping malls. In Michigan, that's the high-end Somerset Collection shopping mall in Troy, a northern suburb of Detroit (pictured at top). At this Tesla location, representatives from the company are not permitted to discuss pricing or sales with potentially interested customers; instead, they direct them to Tesla's website or to outlets in other states that allow direct sales to the consumer. Tesla is fighting similar battles in other states, including Texas and Connecticut, where the company is pushing for a license to be able to sell direct to customers. Tesla's argument is that it can't be said to be violating dealers' rights if the company doesn’t have any dealerships. +++9
GM Testing Trailer Brake Technology to Let Trucks with Trailers Stop 40 Feet Sooner GM unveiled a new trailer brake concept that it claims could reduce a GMC Sierra or Chevy Silverado's stopping distance by 20 percent. image By Colin Beresford JAN 21, 2020 General Motors is testing a new trailer-braking system, saying it can reduce stopping distance up to 20 percent or 40 feet, the same stopping distance as a truck by itself at the same gross vehicle weight rating without a trailer. To do this, GM equips both trailer and truck with its eBoost braking system and adds software to allow them to communicate. The setup is still in testing stages; any future launch date is unknown. One of the hassles of using a truck for towing is that the extra weight means a longer braking distance. That problem is what General Motors is seeking to solve with a concept for new trailer-braking technology intended to make it less stressful to pull a trailer. It involves GM's existing eBoost braking system incorporated into both the truck and the trailer, plus upgrades to the trailer's brake rotors, calipers, and tires. image General Motors So equipped, GM says, the truck is able to stop as if it weren't towing anything. As shown in the video demonstration and the graphic above, GM claims to have reduced 60-mph-to-zero stopping distance by 40 feet in comparison to a truck and trailer equipped with traditional electric brakes, a difference of 20 percent. Trucks and Trailers image Chevy Silverado Driver Ticketed Towing 53’ Trailer pickup truck innovations of today Innovative Truck Features, Incl. Trailer Assist image Every Electric Pickup Truck on the Horizon Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra trucks have what they need to make this technology production ready, but there aren't trailers that can pair with them yet, GM says. So for now, it's theoretical, but it's something we're likely to see in production eventually. +++9
Toyota Is Giving Away Free 2020 Supra Posters If you want one of these free posters, you'd better act fast because Toyota says they'll soon be a collector's item. image By Connor Hoffman JAN 21, 2020 imageMichael SimariCar and Driver Toyota announced that it is giving away free blueprint posters of the new 2020 Supra. The number of posters is limited, so act fast, Toyota says. All you have to do is fill out the online form to get one mailed to you in six to eight weeks. Toyota is giving away free blueprint posters of the 2020 Supra online right now, but you should act fast because it says that they're limited edition and will soon be a collector's item. And we mean it when we say act fast, because you already know that C/D staffers are ordering them to our headquarters in Ann Arbor, Michigan. Toyota USA ✔ @Toyota Get your FREE limited edition 2020 GR Supra poster – a soon-to-be collector’s item – to mark the rebirth of an iconic sport car.  http://2020grsupra.com/poster View image on Twitter 284 3:00 PM - Jan 20, 2020 Twitter Ads info and privacy 87 people are talking about this Getting one of these posters is a lot simpler than buying a $50,000 2020 Supra—they're free. All you need to do is click on this link, fill out your name, address, email, and address, and hopefully you'll get your hands on one of the available posters. Your wall is about to get a lot cooler in about six to eight weeks. Yeah, you'll have to be patient, though. The Year of the Supra image 2020 Toyota Supra: Car and Driver's 10Best image 2020 Toyota Supra vs. 1994 Toyota Supra Turbo We love the new Supra. So much, in fact, that we named it one of our 10Best cars for 2020. We also tested one against the legendary previous-generation A80 Supra in California. And we know you love it, too, because Toyota is now selling new parts for older-generation Supras. +++9
2020 Maserati Lineup Gets Lower Prices and Two New Appearance Packages The all-black Edizione Ribelle package will be limited to 100 Levante SUVs, 100 Ghibli sedans, and 25 Quattroporte luxury cars. image By Drew Dorian JAN 21, 2020 2020 Maserati Levante, Quattroporte, GhibliMaserati Italian automaker Maserati adds an Edizione Ribelle limited-edition package across all three cars in its lineup for 2020. To maintain exclusivity, 100 Levante SUVs, 100 Ghibli sedans, and just 25 Quattroporte luxury cars will be built with the all-black package. Elsewhere, the GranSport trim on all three models benefits from more standard equipment for 2020, and the entire lineup receives new, lower prices. Maserati, maker of performance-oriented luxury cars and SUVs, is already pretty exclusive, selling just 11,100 units in 2019. For 2020, the brand is launching the Edizione Ribelle limited-edition package across all three of its models, which will be even rarer. The Ribelle package adds Nero Ribelle Mica black paint, black chrome exterior detailing, and 20-inch dark gray wheels. VIEW PHOTOS 2020 Maserati Quattroporte Edizione Ribelle Maserati But it's not just all-black everything. There are pops of red in the form of red-painted brake calipers and Nero and Rosso (black and red) two-tone leather upholstery–a first for Maserati. The Edizione Ribelle package will be limited to just 225 cars–100 Levantes, 100 Ghiblis, and 25 Quattroportes–and will be offered only on GranSport trims in all-wheel-drive S Q4 guise. VIEW PHOTOS 2020 Maserati Levante Edizione Ribelle Maserati The Edizione Ribelle isn't the only update Maserati is making to its lineup for 2020; the GranSport trim of each of the three models gains a few extra standard features. Among them are luxury features such as soft-close doors and a heated steering wheel, plus a suite of driver-assistance features. The new standard tech on the GranSport trim includes forward-collision warning with automated emergency braking, blind-spot monitoring, lane-keeping assist, and a 360-degree exterior camera system. A new GT Sport package will be offered on non-GranSport models to give them a sportier appearance. The package adds the more aggressive GranSport's front and rear bumper designs, piano-black interior trim, and red, blue, or black painted brake calipers. Ghibli and Quattroporte models will come with unique 20-inch wheel designs, while the Levante will roll on 21s. VIEW PHOTOS 2020 Maserati Ghibli GT Sport package Maserati Maserati tells us that the 2020 models, including ones with these new packages, are in production now and should reach dealerships in March. On all models, entry-level pricing will be cheaper for 2020. The 2020 Ghibli will start at $70,985, a $5490 discount over the 2019 model, while the 2020 Levante will start $2990 lower than the 2019 model at $74,485. The flagship Quattroporte gets the steepest discount, starting at $101,485: that's $8190 less than last year. The Edizione Ribelle models cost slightly more, at $93,285, $98,485, and $120,985 respectively, which is expected considering they're well-equipped GranSport models. +++9
2021 Nissan Z: What We Know So Far A redesign is finally coming for Nissan's iconic sports car, and it sounds promising. image By Joey Capparella JAN 21, 2020 2021 Nissan Z renderingIllustration by Radovan VaricakCar and Driver The next-generation Nissan Z sports car is finally on the horizon, and here's what we know about it. It will be the long-awaited replacement for the ancient 370Z, which has been on sale since 2009 with few updates. We expect the new Z to debut sometime this year as a 2021 model. The wait for a new Nissan Z sports car is almost over. As we approach the arrival of a replacement for the long-in-the-tooth 370Z—finally!—the rumor mill is running at full capacity, giving us some exciting tidbits about the new two-seater's powertrains, platform, and design. Here is what we expect from the new Z. Twin-Turbo V-6 Power The most powerful engine currently in Nissan and Infiniti's mainstream lineup (apart from the GT-R) is the twin-turbocharged 3.0-liter V-6 that makes up to 400 horsepower in the Infiniti Q50 and Q60. This is the logical choice for the new Z, then, and sources within Nissan dealerships told Autoblog that this powerful mill will indeed be under the hood. A seven-speed automatic is the only transmission choice for this engine in the Infinitis, but we're hoping and praying that a stick shift will be offered as well; remember, Nissan did hint that this was possible by bolting up a six-speed manual to this engine for its modified 370Z concept for the SEMA tuner show this past year. Hinting at the New Car's Engine? Nissan Motorsports Project Clubsport 23 Nissan 370Z Project Clubsport Has a Twin-Turbo V-6 This engine's displacement calls into question what the new Z will be called. 300Z would be rational (or 300ZX, for nostalgia's sake), but we'd guess that Nissan will instead choose a number corresponding to the car's output rather than its displacement, like 400Z, to clarify its superiority over its predecessors. Rear-Wheel Drive, as God Intended A front-engine, rear-wheel-drive layout is the only real way to set up a proper sports car, and the Z will continue on with a newer version of Nissan's FM platform and share many components with the Infiniti Q60 coupe. That's from an earlier report from Autocar, which also said that the new car is code-named Z35. Proof the New Z Is Real image Nissan Z Test Mule Teases the Next-Gen Car All-wheel drive is within the realm of possibility, given that it's offered as an option on the Q60. But we don't think Nissan will go this route, as none of the Z's intended competitors—the Toyota Supra, Ford Mustang, and Chevy Camaro—offer the option of four driven wheels. Retro Styling Although the Nissan Z test mule we spied testing at the Nürburgring last year wore the old car's bodywork, we're pretty certain that the new model will have completely new styling. Autoblog's sources suggested that the original Datsun 240Z would serve as a styling inspiration for the new Z. We hope that means it will present simple, clean lines rather than the angular, tortured look seen on some Nissan concept and production cars lately. Roundish headlights and 300ZX-style taillights will reportedly serve as the key retro touches, as seen on our illustration above. Got Datsun Nostalgia? 1972 Datsun 240Z 1-Owner Datsun 240Z Relives Nissan's Glory Days 1973 Datsun 240Z Lime-Yellow 1973 Datsun 240Z Is up for Auction We doubt that the old-school theme will extend inside, however—and that's a good thing, because the 370Z's cabin is in need of a modern makeover. The cabin should retain its cozy, two-seat atmosphere, but we feel confident that it'll benefit from the latest Nissan infotainment system and a fresh dashboard design. Hopefully Still Affordable The current 370Z starts at just $31,015 and remains a decent performance bargain today despite its age. While there's no doubt in our mind that the new model will see a significant price uptick, we're guessing (and hoping) that the new Z will start somewhere in the $40,000 range, which would undercut the Toyota Supra by a few thousand dollars. All signs point to the new Nissan Z's arrival being imminent. Our suspicion is that it will make its first appearance sometime later in 2020, going on sale in the U.S. as a 2021 model either at the end of this year or early next year. We can't wait to see it for real. +++9
Paul Walker's Seven BMW M3s Sold for a Combined $1.7 Million The late star of the Fast & Furious movies had a collection including seven BMW M3s and a strong selection of muscle cars. image By Colin Beresford JAN 21, 2020 Paul Walker CarsBrian C. Bossert/Barrett-Jackson The late star of the Fast & Furious franchise had a penchant for performance cars, and 21 from his personal collection are going on the block at Barrett-Jackson. The 21 cars going to auction include a 1995 Ford Bronco, seven BMW M3s, and a 2013 Ford Mustang Boss 302S. They'll headline the Barrett-Jackson Scottsdale auction in Arizona in mid-January. UPDATE 1/21/20: Paul Walker's collection was auctioned off at the 2020 Barrett-Jackson Scottsdale event, where five of his E36 M3 lightweights sold for a combined $1.3 million. One of them, with 4600 miles on the odometer, sold for $385,000. The collection also consisted of two E30 M3s, which sold for $220,000 and $165,000. Other cars sold from the late actor's collection included a 2009 Nissan 370Z from the film Fast Five, which sold for $105,600, and 1989 Nissan Skyline R32 and 2013 Ford Mustang Boss 302S race cars. If you want a vintage Ford Bronco or BMW M3, it's not difficult to find one right now. But even better, you could buy one that was owned by the late Paul Walker, star of The Fast and the Furious. The collection assembled by the star, who died in a car accident in 2013, was heavy on performance cars and particularly E36 BMW M3s, of which there are five up for auction, along with two earlier E30 M3s. These are among the 21 vehicles from his personal collection going on the block in January at the Barrett-Jackson Scottsdale auction. VIEW PHOTOS image Paul Walker’s 1995 Ford Bronco Eddie Bauer Edition. Brian C. Bossert/Barrett-Jackson Other cars on offer range from a 1963 Chevrolet Nova wagon and a 1967 Chevrolet II Nova to 2003 Ford F-250 and 2006 Toyota Tundra pickups. Buyers will also be able to bid on a 1989 Nissan R32 Skyline race car and a 2009 Nissan 370Z. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below VIEW PHOTOS 2013 Ford Mustang Boss 302S 2013 Ford Boss 302S Mustang. Brian C. Bossert/Barrett-Jackson This 2013 Ford Boss 302S was a gift to Walker. Barrett-Jackson says the car, which is not street legal, has spent its life so far in storage and has never been raced. It's set up for it, though, with a 5.0-liter Ford Racing Motorsport V-8 paired with a Tremec six-speed manual transmission and all the Ford Racing equipment and software. VIEW PHOTOS 1991 BMW M3 E30 1991 BMW M3 E30 from Paul Walker Collection. Brian C. Bossert/Barrett-Jackson VIEW PHOTOS 1995 BMW M3 E36 Lightweight 1995 BMW M3 E36 Lightweight has 15,485 actual miles. Brian C. Bosssert/Barrett-Jackson Among the M3s are two earlier E30 cars, the one above from 1991 and another dating to 1988, plus five 1995 E36 M3 Lightweights, which is a lighter, track-oriented version of the vehicle. The Lightweights are all powered by a BMW S50 240-hp 3.0-liter straight-six with a five-speed manual transmission. +++9
GM's Cruise Reportedly about to Reveal the First Truly Driverless Car Company had been testing self-driving Chevy Bolt EV cars with human test drivers, but this new vehicle requires no driver on board, sources say. image By Laura Sky Brown JAN 21, 2020 imageCruise The automated-car startup Cruise will reveal its first vehicle later today, and it will be a milestone in that it will need no driver on board, unnamed sources told Bloomberg and Automotive News. Cruise, a company that started as an automation R&D firm bankrolled by General Motors, is now calling itself "a self-driving car service designed for the cities we love."The new vehicle will have no pedals or steering wheel and will be intended for ride sharing, according to the sources. Cruise is staging an event in California later today at which it's expected to be unveiled. Cruise LLC, the automation startup affiliated with General Motors, reportedly is about to unveil the first fully driverless vehicle—meaning one without steering wheel or pedals—at an event in California. That's according to reports citing unnamed sources published by Automotive News and Bloomberg. Cruise has done extensive R&D using the Chevrolet Bolt EV, but what this fully autonomous vehicle will look like is unknown. The CEO of Cruise, Dan Ammann, wrote on Medium in December that his company plans to launch a self-driving service, saying that it's time our society moved past individual car ownership. In the blog post, titled "We Need to Move beyond the Car," Ammann criticized automobiles in strong terms for using fossil fuels, causing urban congestion, and being dangerous. He said the rise of ride sharing—meaning services such as Uber and Lyft—"has added further congestion, more emissions, and potentially even decreased safety in our cities from overtired and overworked drivers" and is not the solution. Autonomy Is Coming Tesla Enhanced Autopilot IIHS Finds People Misunderstand Self-Driving Tech image Self-Driving Cars Are More Like Us Than We Think Bolt Cruise Automation Cruise Automation Posts Cryptic Instagram Images The Cruise launch, therefore, is expected to feature something that looks more like public transit and less like a personal vehicle. Automotive News, citing unnamed sources, said it's expected to be an electric vehicle that's roomier than a traditional car and "passenger-friendly." We'll bring you full details when we have them. +++9
100 Years of American Race Cars Coming to Henry Ford Museum GM is sponsoring the permanent exhibit, which is packed with such classics as Lotus-Ford, Ford GT, and Camaro racers and land speed record cars. image By Sebastian Blanco JAN 20, 2020 imageThe Henry Ford From the 1906 Locomobile Old 16 to a 2018 Chevy Camaro to the 2016 Ford GT that won its class at Le Mans (above), you can get your fix of classic race cars with this exhibit. Movies, interactive displays and, thankfully, racing simulators will all be part of the Driven to Win exhibit. The is the latest in the Henry Ford Museum of American Innovation's exploration of what makes American auto racing special and different, and it's sponsored by General Motors. Racers, there's no need to start your engines. A new permanent exhibit called Driven to Win will bring a century's worth of American racing vehicles to the Henry Ford museum complex in Dearborn, Michigan, this summer. But they won't be speeding around the track. Instead, visitors will try to satisfy their need for speed using screens and sound to supplement an up-close look at the static vehicles on display. 1965 Lotus-Ford 1965 Lotus-Ford. The Henry Ford The Henry Ford says there will be a number of experience zones that offer up different facets of what it's like to be on the track. A 15-minute virtual ride called In the Driver's Seat is the most realistic (and, we assume, the most fun) thanks to six connected, full-motion racing simulators that will let you drive the "world's fastest cars" on the "most challenging tracks on the planet." Details on which cars and which tracks were not provided, but there will be a five-minute qualifying session followed by "genuine wheel-to-wheel competition."What to See on Your Summer Vacation Jeeps on Assembly Line in Toledo, 1943 Jeep Museum to Open in Toledo, Ohio image Corvette Museum Has Restored All Sinkhole Vettes Gateway Auto Museum Car Museum and Resort for Sale: $279 Million OBO For a less white-knuckle experience, a 4D movie called Fueled by Passion brings viewers trackside and into the vehicles in five different forms of racing. The Winner's Circle is a place to celebrate some of people and vehicles involved in American auto racing's biggest moments. Motorsports Performance Training allows visitors to learn what it takes to prep for a race, and, finally, the Sports Car Race Shop is where some of the engineering behind winning race cars will be explained. Driven to Win, previously announced as Racing in America, is sponsored by General Motors, but cars from its rivals will be presented as well. The Henry Ford highlighted these vehicles from the upcoming 24,000-square-foot exhibit: image Goldenrod Land Speed Record car. The Henry Ford The 1906 Locomobile Old 16, the first American car to win a major international road race in the United States. The 1965 Lotus-Ford (pictured above) that was the first rear-engine car to win the Indianapolis 500. The 1965 Goldenrod (above), which held a land speed record of 409.277 mph for wheel-driven cars until 1991. The 1967 Ford Mark IV, which earned an all-American victory at Le Mans with Dan Gurney and A.J. Foyt at the wheel. The 1988 Chevrolet-powered Penske PC-17, driven by Rick Mears for the third of his four Indy 500 wins. A 2018 Chevrolet Camaro ZL1 1LE, a track-ready performance car used in engineering tests at Germany's celebrated Nürburgring racing circuit. image Moore/Unser Pikes Peak Hill Climb race car. The Henry Ford The Henry Ford has its own idea about what specifically defines American racing. In 2011, the museum's curators issued an article on this subject in which they decided that American auto racing has four distinct characteristics: a love of pure speed (instead of the strategy behind turns and overtaking), a desire to see the entire track at once (ovals and drag strips), a preference for short races (with some outliers, like the Indianapolis 500), and insularity, both from racers from outside the U.S. as well as between different racing styles. Driven to Win opens in June 2020 inside the Henry Ford Museum of American Innovation in Dearborn, Michigan. +++9
First Mid-Engine Chevy Corvette Sold for $3 Million at Auction Barrett-Jackson sold the first C8 Corvette off the line for the Detroit Children's Fund charity, and NASCAR team owner Rick Hendrick snapped it up. image By Connor Hoffman JAN 19, 2020 imageBarrett-Jackson The Barrett-Jackson auction company got $3 million for the very first 2020 Chevrolet Corvette off the line at its January auction in Scottsdale, Arizona, with all proceeds going to a Detroit educational charity. The mid-engine C8 Corvette with VIN 001 gets the Z51 Performance package and the 495-hp 6.2-liter LT2 V-8, and the winning bidder was NASCAR team owner Rick Hendrick. This same auction house sold the last C7 Corvette last spring and took in $2.7 million for a different charity. UPDATE 1/19/20: NASCAR team owner Rick Hendrick was the winning bidder, paying $3 million for C8 Corvette no. 1 at a high-spirited charity auction event on Saturday featuring GM CEO Mary Barra on the stage. Although the car present at the auction was red, Barrett-Jackson said the actual first car will be "a black-on-black Corvette 3LT loaded with every available option, scheduled to be built during the first quarter of 2020."We've seen this before: automakers offering the first example of a highly anticipated new model up for auction to benefit a charity. This time, General Motors will auction off the first mid-engine Corvette off the line at Barrett-Jackson's Scottsdale Auction in January. All proceeds will go to the Detroit Children's Fund, which benefits underfunded Detroit public schools. So Much More about the Mid-Engine Vette image 2020 Chevrolet Corvette C8 Flies in Its First Test 2020 Chevrolet Corvette Z06 Corvette Z06 Spied Testing with Fat Rear Fenders image Chevy Corvette C8 vs. C7 Racetrack Throwdown VIN 001 of the C8 Corvette Stingray is powered by a 495-hp 6.2-liter LT2 V-8 and is equipped with the Z51 performance package, which adds an electronically controlled limited-slip differential with a shorter final-drive ratio, Brembo brakes, a performance exhaust, heavy-duty cooling system, and Michelin Pilot Sport 4S summer tires. image GM CEO Mary Barra and winning bidder Rick Hendrick pose during the Barrett-Jackson Auction in Scottsdale on January 18. Barrett-Jackson There's no doubt this example will go for well over the $59,995 starting price of the C8 Stingray. Only a few months ago, the final front-engine C7 Corvette sold for $2.7 million at the Barrett-Jackson Northeast Auction in June, and the first Ford Mustang Shelby GT500 off the line sold for an insane $1.1 million at the Barrett-Jackson Scottsdale auction in January, both also for charity. +++9
For Just $13,970, You Can Own a Race-Weathered Ferrari 250TR The car is a scale model of the car that finished seventh at the 1958 24 Hours of Le Mans. image By Mihir Maddireddy JAN 19, 2020 imageAmalgam Collection At the 1958 24 Hours of Le Mans, the no. 22 car was a 1958 Ferrari 250TR piloted by Ed Hugus and Ray "Ernie" Jackson, who finished in seventh place. Their car, named Lucybelle II, has been replicated by the craftsmen at the Amalgam Collection with help from Ferrari. Only three models of this race-weathered classic are for sale at a price of $13,970 each. For anybody seeking the crown jewel in a collection of scale models, here's a strong contender: this 1:8 scale model of a 1958 Ferrari 250TR. The price—nearly $14,000—is far, far out of the range of many collectors, but here's what makes it special: It is handcrafted to look exactly like the original 1958 Ferrari 250TR named Lucybelle II that won the 24 Hours of Le Mans. Yes, this model is considered “race weathered” and looks like it has just competed in the 1:8 scale model edition of the 24 Hours of Le Mans. 1958 Ferrari 250TR Amalgam Collection The original, life-size Lucybelle II 250TR was entered in the legendary French endurance race by privateer Ed Hugus and wore no. 22. Hugus and teammate Ray "Ernie" Jackson drove it to seventh place in front of a crowd of 150,000 spectators, all there to watch Ferraris, Jaguars, Aston Martins, and Porsches battle it out on the Circuit de la Sarthe. Geek Out on Le Mans Trivia image Ford v Ferrari: How They Shot the Racing Scenes AUTO-FRA-24H-ENDURANCE The 24 Hour of Le Mans Race Explained The year 1958 was a great one for the Maranello team, as Ferrari absolutely dominated the World Sports Car Championship, had an astounding 11 privateer and factory entries at Le Mans, and, with its factory 250TR/58 driven by Olivier Gendebien and Phil Hill, ended up winning the race. Ferrari 250TR Amalgam Collection The Amalgam Collection is known for making some truly beautiful works of art when it comes to scale models. The Bristol, England, company has been commissioned by the likes of Richard Mille and Ralph Lauren to make scale-model replicas of cars in their own personal collections. This handcrafted 1958 Ferrari 250TR was designed and built with assistance from Ferrari, which allowed the Amalgam Collection to digitally scan every inch of the car in order to re-create even the most minute details. Ferrari also provided information on original finishes, materials, archive imagery, and drawings from when the car was built and raced. Each car is hand-painted by the master craftspeople at Amalgam to achieve that race-weathered look. The result is a stunning piece of art that looks as if it had actually driven at high speed through the atrocious conditions of the 1958 race. Ferrari 250TR Amalgam Collection Amalgam is selling only three of these models, priced at $13,970. The price is warranted when you consider details such as the Testa Rossa engine, the headlights that have little pieces of tape holding the covers on, and the exhaust soot that covers the quad tailpipes. If you aren’t a fan of the race-weathered look, there is also a Lucybelle II model that is clean, without a speck of dirt on its white bodywork. That one, however, isn’t limited to only three models and has a lower price of $11,995. +++9
2020 Jeep North Edition Trims Make Every Jeep Model Winter-Friendly Cold-weather comfort is now a simpler order for the Cherokee, Grand Cherokee, Compass, Renegade, Wrangler, and Gladiator. image By Clifford Atiyeh JAN 17, 2020 imageFCA Unveiled at the New England auto show, the Jeep North Edition is a new trim for all six Jeep models that includes comfort and mechanical upgrades. Heated steering wheels and a tow strap kit are included in the package for Cherokee, Grand Cherokee, Compass, Gladiator, Renegade, and Wrangler. On some models, all-terrain tires ordinarily found on higher trims are also included. No matter how long the C/D staff has lived in Michigan, never has anyone enjoyed a minus-26 degree morning on the way to work, not even when the lucky shuttle is a long-term Corvette. Jeep’s customer research must have reached the same conclusion, because now there is a go-to trim that winterizes every vehicle in its lineup. For 2020, all six Jeep models can be ordered as the North Edition, a bundle of goodies plucked from various option packages on lesser models and, on certain models, offered at a discount. Like the Ram 1500 North Edition that FCA released in 2018, the North Edition Jeeps will be offered to every state, including the hot one with volcanoes surrounded by bright aqua water. Everyone suffering in the Salt Belt will actually use the heated front seats, heated steering wheel, and remote start on a daily basis, while the front tow hooks and 22-foot-long tow strap from Mopar's Trail Rated Kit are included for an occasional rescue mission. image Heated seats in 2020 Jeep Wrangler Sahara. FCA Thick rubber floor mats and power heated mirrors come standard, and for Cherokee, Grand Cherokee, Gladiator, and Wrangler models, there's a set of knobby all-terrain tires. Every North Edition brings gray 17- or 18-inch wheels and four-wheel drive (despite Jeep’s off-road reputation, front- or rear-wheel drive is the base fare on everything but the Wrangler and Gladiator). Finally, a Uconnect 8.4-inch touchscreen replaces the 7.0-inch unit. Chilling Minivan Stuck in a Snow Filled Ditch along Highway 9 Things You Need in Your Car This Winter image The Porsche Taycan 4S Digs the Snow image Driving in an Empty Snowy Parking Lot is the Best If you're confused how the North Edition slots among the dozens of trims available, let’s break it down. On Cherokee and Compass models, it’s most similar to the Trailhawk trims in terms of price, engines, and exterior design (but without the upgraded suspensions). The Cherokee Latitude North Edition costs $31,250, and the Compass Sport version is $29,295. The Renegade North Edition is priced slightly higher than the base Sport to which it's added, at $28,165. The Grand Cherokee Latitude with North Edition has most everything the Altitude has and more, for $40,285. On the four-door Wrangler, at $45,960, it’s an upgrade for the street-friendly Sahara trim. Gladiator trucks now position the North Edition above the Overland as the most expensive trim to start, at $47,215. It comes with a three-piece hard top, too. Every North Edition is now on sale except the Renegade, which arrives in March. Even for you, Miami. +++9
Cruise Automation's Cryptic Instagram Posts Explained The self-driving-car company wants you to wonder what big plans it's about to announce next week. image By Roberto Baldwin JAN 17, 2020 imageCruise Automation After wiping its Instagram account of more traditional posts, the self-driving-car startup company has posted images of nine geographical coordinates. The locations line up with the technology the company is currently using. Cruise Automation will unveil its actual plans on the night of January 21 in California. Next week Cruise Automation will be hosting a "Moving beyond the Car" event in the San Francisco Bay Area. Ahead of the shindig, the self-driving company has decided to get all "Dharma Initiative" on its Instagram account by deleting all its images and replacing them with nine posts with various longitudes and latitudes. Are these the locations of an upcoming expansion or destinations for the world's nerdiest scavenger hunt? Actually, it's the locations of some pretty important devices and technologies that Cruise Automation will use to power its mobility plan. More on Automated Cars image Honda and Cruise Automation's Plans image Can Semi- and Fully Automated Cars Coexist? Thanks to the power of Google Maps, we can plug in the coordinates and determine the destinations posted by Cruise Automation and with a little research figure out why the company believes these areas to be important. The center image with the streak of light is the location of the event in San Francisco. That's an easy one. After that, it gets a bit odd but not too difficult to unravel. image Cruise Auomation The top-left location which has “innovation is our true North” as its caption is near the industrial district in Xinmi, Zhengzhou, Henan, China. This location is related to the creation of the compass which was invented during the Han Dynasty (206 BC–220 AD). The top center is a building in the Welsh town of Merthyr Tydfil. That structure is essentially right on top of the world's first locomotive run which occurred back in 1804. Which jibes with the caption, “don't just stay on track.” The third location and its caption "disruption drives us forward," is the auto museum of Karl Benz. You might know him as the creator of the first real automobile. The fourth location is the Thomas Edison Museum in Menlo Park, New Jersey. It's where Edison worked on his lightbulb design and other inventions. The caption “it's brighter where we're going.” It's a bit on the nose, but all of these are sort of like that. The sixth destination (remember the fifth location is where the event will be held), tells us to “cut through the static.” The coordinates drop us on the Foundation Guglielmo Marconi in Italy. Guglielmo Marconi is known for his work on long-distance radio research and is credited as the inventor of the radio. Destination number seven is the Kleinrock Internet History Center at UCLA, the birthplace of the Internet. Which explains the “never stop searching for what's next,” caption. When we zoom in on location eight we find ourselves at the Palo Alto Research Center (a.k.a. PARC). The “it's time to hit refresh,” might have to do with the center's history of changing the technology world over and over again. They are credited with creating ethernet, modems, laser printing, the mouse, personal computers, the list goes on and on. And finally, the “a new beginning is calling,” destination is the New York Midtown Hilton. It’s supposedly where John Lennon wrote "Imagine.” More importantly, it's the location of the first hand-held cellphone call on April 3, 1973. It's a fun little bit of marketing by a company that is about to announce to the world its future plans. The company with investment from Softbank, GM, and Honda has been testing its self-driving fleet in the San Francisco Bay Area for years. On Tuesday we'll find just what all those miles driven have produced and the future of its mobility plans. +++9
2020 Lincoln Navigator Reserve Review & Test Drive posted by Malcolm Hogan Filed under Automotive, Lincoln, SUV, Test Drives Share2Save 2020 lincoln navigator monochromatic The Lincoln Motor Company has gained a new lifeline thanks to shocking the SUV market with vehicles like the new Navigator, which many have claimed as taking the king-of-the-hill position from the Cadillac Escalade. Whether you believe such or not, you cannot avoid the fact that the introduction of the 2018 Navigator has elevated the Lincoln brand, and the latest 2020 model year with its minor tweaks continues to build upon a new forward direction for the American luxury automaker. >> Get The Best Price On The Lincoln Navigator from a network of local dealers now. << With vehicles like the new Navigator and even the recently introduced Aviator, Lincoln Motor Company has a new momentum, and it’s as fierce as the Ford Raptor-inspired twin-turbo V6 engine equipped in the 2020 Navigator. Having already experienced the new Lincoln Navigator since its redesign as a 2018 model year, it’s refreshing to see Lincoln keeping such a vehicle well-polished now two years later. 2020 lincoln navigator side The 2020 Lincoln Navigator is mostly unchanged with a few exceptions, such as offering new colors and combinations along with the Co-Pilot360 driver safety package (blind spot monitors, lane keep assist, forward pre-collision assist w/warning and emergency braking, rearview camera, auto highbeams) coming as standard equipment now, and better integrating phone-based vehicle access through their latest Lincoln Way smartphone app. My 2020 Ceramic Pearl-colored Lincoln Navigator Reserve test vehicle with the new-for-2020 Monochromatic package happens to come with one of the new color choices, which also adds a few tweaks to paint its massive grille the body color along with the side fender emblem surroundings getting the proper body-color treatment and the option of gloss black painted 22-inch wheels. The color combination works well to make the massive size of the Navigator more attractive in the eyes of luxury seekers. Moreover, offering a wider color gamut appeals to some luxury buyers to stand out in a landscape that’s flooded with large SUVs in America. 2020 lincoln navigator rear See Also: Lincoln Navigator Black Label Full Review & Test Drive In the quest to keep its newly established upper echelon status in the scope of mainstream large luxury SUVs, the new Navigator retains its robust powertrain that gets the job done and some all while remaining somewhat efficient. The 3.5-liter turbocharged V6 engine proudly touts 450 horsepower and 510 lb-ft of torque, enabling the Navigator to either tow up to 8,600 pounds or get up to 60 mph without a trailer in just about 6 seconds. Moreover, the Navigator gives you an assured feeling when driving it either around town or out on the highway. Its body-on-frame design doesn’t put you off or make you feel as if things are out of control under the confides of legal limits. It rides and handles its apparent heft pretty good, but the rear suspension is still a bit too busy for my liking in the normal drive modes. The Excite drive mode, basically a sport mode, firms things up and keeps the rear-end slop in check but at the sacrifice of additional fuel spent with the transmission holding gears longer. The 10-speed transmission is a gem in making sure the power is delivered to either the rear wheels or all four in the best way possible, taking advantage of the surprisingly wide powerband of the beefy turbo V6. 2020 lincoln navigator dasboard On the side of efficiency, the Navigator pulls off a neat trick of still giving you the power that’s expected in such a big vehicle, but does it with grace to still get respectable fuel economy, or at least fuel economy that isn’t any worse than the competition but with more power. EPA fuel economy for the Navigator Reserve AWD is 16 mpg city, 21 mpg highway, and 18 mpg combined. For the two-wheel-drive Navigator, figures get better on the highway for an EPA estimate of 23 mpg. Lincoln has prided itself with the new Navigator, and many of its design treatments have carried their way into other new vehicles, such as the all-new midsized Aviator and even the compact Corsair crossover, which have all been recognized as being ahead of the curve in their respective classes. When you have a good thing in a vehicle, you tend to trickle down the good bits to other models, just as Lincoln has done – such says a lot about all that the Navigator has to offer. The latest Sync infotainment unit is pretty good but does take a little while to fully load for the welcomed responsiveness of inputs. The number of physical buttons and knobs are welcomed to get to the important functions without any fuss. The seating comfort is excellent with the caveat of finding your optimal position in the front 30-way power-adjustable seats with massage. Lastly, the second and third rows are usable for adults as they should be for a vehicle of this size along with the respected amounts of cargo space. 2020 lincoln navigator captain chairs I praised the Navigator many times over in my previous review of the vehicle when the redesigned model was introduced two years ago. Today, I build upon such praise where I’m safe to say that there isn’t anything else that can touch it for such a price. That is, possibly, until Cadillac introduces a redesigned Escalade. For now, the new Navigator, with its several trim level offerings, is a large SUV to be reckoned with. 2020 lincoln navigator third row The new 2020 Navigator starts at a price of $75,825 for the Standard trim. My mid-level Navigator AWD Reserve test vehicle starts at $81,365, and in its nicely loaded up state tests at a price of $91,465. +++9
2019 Dodge Challenger R/T Scat Pack Widebody Review & Test Drive posted by Malcolm Hogan Filed under Automotive, Dodge, Test Drives Share12Save 2019 dodge challenger rt scat pack widebody When you have a good thing, and know you have a good thing, you don’t mess with the formula. Though, at times, you may have the desire to tweak a well-known good formula to improve upon it and keep it fresh just as Dodge has done with the Challenger. In that, the latest iteration of the Dodge Challenger has received some minor updates to keep what has been a well-aged platform relevant by adding a widebody form and making the value-added Scat Pack available with Hellcat-looking additions. >> Get The Best Price On The Dodge Challenger from a network of local dealers now. << The Dodge Challenger Scat Pack has always been touted as a good value, and now you can have such with the brand’s 392 HEMI V8 engine with the widebody look that fits wider tires for a better stance and menacing looks to boot. Such a package, yielding 485 horsepower and 475 lb-ft of torque from the 6.4-liter 392 V8 engine, gives buyers something that may be considered as more usable on public roads for laying down that raw naturally-aspirated American V8 power. See Also: 2018 Dodge Challenger SRT Hellcat Review & Test Drive 2019 dodge challenger rt scat pack widebody back Stepping into the Challenger R/T Scat Pack Widebody may not get you the street cred for having one of the most powerful American muscle cars you can buy new off of a dealership lot, but it does give you virtually the same looks. Under the wider body fenders, you get 305-width 20-inch all-season tires squared up on all four corners giving a better footing on the pavement when you want to lay into the throttle or take sharp turns at speed with a little added confidence. Sure, the Dodge Challenger, however you slice it in its many offered trim levels, is still a boat of a vehicle, but the widebody variations attempt to keep the boating in check and does ever so slightly in the affordable package that the Scat Pack Widebody offers. While I have praised what the Dodge Challenger offers in many previous reviews, getting the Scat Pack in for a test drive is a nice change from the thrashing power of the Hellcat. Other equipment to praise in the R/T Scat Pack Widebody is the Brembo brakes, 6-piston calipers up front and 4-piston calipers out back all biting down on sizable slotted rotors. The brakes do their job to tame the raw V8 power just as a somewhat similar setup does in the Hellcat and Redeye monsters that can be had in the Challenger. No doubt, you can still break the rear tires loose and go to town painting the streets with Pirelli rubber. The TorqueFlite 8-speed automatic transmission bangs through the gears with assured shifts, and the adaptive widebody competition suspension system does its job to balance the hefty body of the Challenger afloat on an even keel. There’s a lot to welcome in the Challenger Widebody but with more agreeable power for those who aren’t bold enough to go full Hellcat, Redeye, or Demon. In all, you get the availability of basically all of the tech goodies and optional equipment that can be had in the Challenger, including the welcomed 8.4-inch infotainment system, which is included on my loaded up test vehicle. 2019 dodge challenger rt scat pack widebody seats For the respected price of $54,120 out the door, the Dodge Challenger R/T Scat Pack Widebody is a good deal – it undercuts the hellacious Hellcat trims by nearly $10,000 for a comparably equipped setup – if you think 485 horsepower is enough for you. +++9
Keyless Remotes and Their Deadly Dangers posted by Automotive Addicts Contributor Filed under Automotive, Automotive Help, Technical ShareSave The keyless remote for your vehicle is a convenience that most people could not do without.  These devices make it so easy to operate many features of our vehicle at the push of a button.  Unfortunately, with that ease of use comes some potential dangers that everyone should be aware of. Automobiles and Carbon Monoxide Poisoning While it may seem difficult to imagine, people die every year as a result of carbon monoxide poisoning from automobiles.  This can happen for a few different reasons, but the most common is allowing a vehicle to run inside an enclosed space, such as a garage.  As the vehicle runs, it emits carbon monoxide, or CO.  As everyone should know, CO can be deadly as it is breathed into the body. Running your automobile inside your garage puts you at great risk.  Even with the garage door open, the carbon monoxide cannot properly escape the space.  As the car runs, more and more CO is produced, so the garage starts to become filled with the deadly gas.  Especially in homes with an attached garage or basement garage, the carbon monoxide begins to fill the living space as well. Since carbon monoxide is odorless, people are often not aware of the danger of this situation.  Once CO begins filling the home, it can turn deadly very quickly.  As the CO is breathed into the lungs, the body becomes deprived of oxygen and cannot survive very long in that state. How Keyless Remotes Increase the Danger As previously mentioned, keyless remotes make things very simple.  We can lock or unlock our vehicles without even thinking.  Just push the button, and it happens.  This can potentially be very dangerous when it comes to the remote start function on your device. People often start their vehicle to allow it time to warm up without even thinking about it.  If that vehicle is inside a garage or, in some cases, parked too close to the home, carbon monoxide can begin to enter the home.  People often begin doing other things to prepare to leave, and they can forget the vehicle is still running.  When they finally remember, it could be nearly too late! Tips to Avoid Danger There are many ways that you can avoid the danger associated with your keyless remote and carbon monoxide poisoning.  When you start your vehicle, set a timer so that you don’t forget it’s running.  However, the most important thing to remember is never start your vehicle and allow it to idle while it is inside. Keep in mind it is possible to start some cars from the remote which can happen unknowingly in your pocket. Be sure to replace key fob batteries regularly.  If you always move the vehicle outside and away from the home first, then you can avoid most of the danger. My Car has No Audible Alarm, Now What? Don’t worry, you are not alone.  Vehicles today do not include carbon monoxide detectors because these detectors are somewhat fragile devices.  They cannot hold up to extreme temperatures.  If your car is in proper working order, and you follow the tips described above, you should have no need for an audible alarm in the vehicle. If, however, you feel that CO may be entering the vehicle because of a faulty exhaust system or something similar, you can always place a battery-operated CO detector in the car.  This will allow you to determine whether CO is present as the car is running.  Be mindful of your ears though…the alarm will be very loud inside the vehicle! Conclusion While keyless remotes make our lives easy, don’t let their ease of use lull you into a false sense of security. They are not completely without risks and danger.  Take this advice and never allow your car to idle inside your garage.  Be mindful and responsible, and you should not have any issues when it comes to using your keyless remote. +++9
2020 BMW M850i xDrive Gran Coupe Review & Test Drive posted by Malcolm Hogan Filed under Automotive, BMW, Test Drives Share3Save bmw m850i gran coupe While the automotive market certainly has some big changes on the horizon, the current state of vehicles never ceases to amaze me with staggering horsepower numbers and stunning designs that even captivate the less enthused. BMW happens to be a brand that gets deserving attention in more ways than one. Strapping behind the wheel of something like the new M850i Gran Coupe gets your heart pumping yet appeals to a majority with a sense of style being a uniquely designed sloped roof 4-door version of the new 8 Series. >> Get the best price on the BMW 8 Series from a network of local dealers now. << The all-new 2020 M850i Gran Coupe is something to behold that BMW brings to the market as a rarity in its design. The unique style is that of a coupe-like look but has four frameless windowed doors, reminiscent of the old 6 Series Gran Coupe or taking up space in a segment once pioneered by the Mercedes-Benz CLS. Such a style plays on the typical design aesthetics of a coupe (2-door vehicle) but makes way for a longer wheelbase to fit all four doors. With that, BMW’s M850i is transformed from its two-door glory into an appealing vehicle that can seat five with back seats that are actually usable for adults due to a surprising amount of legroom. The driving dynamics of the M850i Gran Coupe stay true to what the new M850i Coupe is all about with its thrashingly powerful 4.4-liter twin-turbo engine that is good for 523 horsepower and 553 lb-ft of torque that sends power to an 8-speed automatic transmission and the latest xDrive all-wheel-drive system to power all four wheels. bmw m850i gran coupe side The 8 Series Gran Coupe is certainly a different animal in its extreme design. Most of the body lines contour and bend to nearly half circles to form bulging-sculpted doors. The roof is a smooth, uninterrupted curve from the lower windshield that doesn’t end until the power-opening and closing duck-billed trunk lid concludes. The M850i Gran Coupe is a stunner and looks the part to match its surprising sportscar-like performance. See Also: 2019 BMW 850i Convertible Review & Test Drive In all of the glory of BMW’s widely used twin-turbo V8 engine, the M850i Gran Coupe is no different in that it takes advantage of a powertrain that feels much more powerful than its numbers state on paper. In fact, being able to go from zero to sixty in 3.8 seconds in my tests, the M850i Gran Coupe is nearly true “M” material. While most shouldn’t get the “M” lettering at the beginning of the M850i Gran Coupe’s model signification confused with the real-deal M cars – like it’s M5 or M6 Gran Coupe brethren with 600 or more horsepower – the “M” is more for it being a Motorsport-inspired vehicle that comes standard with what we used to define as an M Sport package. Such a standard setup in the M850i Gran Coupe features better brakes, an M Sport differential, special 20-inch M wheels wrapped with performance tires, and specialized Adaptive dampers as part of the Adaptive M Suspension Pro feature. In all, the M850i Gran Coupe comes as a complete package for being the most aggressive 4-door-coupe in the BMW lineup unless you spring for the forthcoming M8 Gran Coupe (due out in Spring of 2020). bmw m850i gran coupe back of car The way the M850i Gran Coupe drives makes you almost forget that you have four doors, which is probably part of BMW’s mission in developing such a unique vehicle. After having the new 8 Series convertible in for a full review, it’s comforting to see BMW utilize such a dynamic offering and expand upon it for better versatility to tote more passengers in style and comfort without sacrificing much of its stunning coupe-like looks. bmw m850i gran coupe dashboard Inside of the new M850i Gran Coupe is a familiar cabin for BMW fans, which is a good thing considering the new design language that features a well-thought-out set of controls and the best-ever iteration of iDrive in my opinion. After becoming acclimated to the new iDrive system and its large 12.3-inch touch screen, I tend to enjoy the integration and seamless response of each and every control that you input, by either touching the screen, using the iDrive controller, or interacting with the advanced voice feature that now takes a stab at using more natural language recognition by simply saying “Hey BMW” (somewhat like how Mercedes-Benz does their “Hey Mercedes”). bmw m850i gran coupe front seats The more stunning aspects of the BMW M850i Gran Coupe’s interior is the subtilty contrasted leather colors and inserts on the sporty but comfy seats. Even sitting in the back is a delightful experience, especially considering I can actually fit in the back with my 6-foot-plus frame and long legs. The only complaint is the ingress and egress of the vehicle, where I may have bumped my head a few times and somewhat struggled to get past the B-pillar with my seat adjustment. Otherwise, the cabin of the M850i Gran Coupe is quite inviting. bmw crystal shifter Performance has always been a forte for BMW, and the M850i Gran Coupe is nothing short of such. The Integral Active Steering, which steers the rear wheels a few degrees to the opposite turning angle at low speeds, virtually shortens the wheelbase making maneuvering parking lots an almost thoughtless act. The ample power from the turbocharged V8 and the follow-up of the rumbling exhaust with three different sound modes is always assuring that you own the road that you travel. The 8-speed transmission, that fires off seamless and direct shifts, is always in the proper cog and puts power down without any apparent slipping of the torque converter. The plushness of the M850i Gran Coupe only shows its face with the abundance of leather wrapping throughout the interior and the somewhat oddly soft feeling of the suspension in both Comfort and the many Sport driving modes. I found that the softness of the suspension was an oddity but didn’t upset the balance and ability to feel confident with the elongated 8 Series chassis. bmw m850i gran coupe rear seats On the front of economy, the M850i Gran Coupe is mostly consistent to get its stated 17 mpg city, 25 mpg highway, and 20 mpg combined. Of course, with such a vehicle, no one is really going to pay much attention to the fuel economy after laying down $121,695 for my loaded-up test vehicle. bmw m850i gran coupe Six figures is what you will pay for the V8 version of the 8 Series Gran Coupe, unless you literally slow things down and opt for the 840i Gran Coupe, which starts at just $85,895, touting the 335-horsepower turbocharged inline-six-cylinder engine and the same good looks that you see in my test vehicle. I’m all for splurging here, go for the gold with the M850i Gran Coupe if the soon-to-come full Monty M8 Gran Coupe is too much in terms of power (600hp or 617hp Competition model) and price starting around an estimated $130K. +++9
Tips For Getting Cheap Car Insurance For Young Drivers posted by Automotive Addicts Contributor Filed under Automotive, Automotive Help, Editorial, Technical ShareSave Young drivers are statistically more likely to be involved in accidents and make claims. The knock-on effect of this is sending the car insurance costs of this demographic are sky-high. Trying to find the best cheap insurance for young drivers might feel like an impossible and possibly even futile task, but there’s plenty for you to do to keep the costs down. From increasing your excess to choosing the right car, the tips provided here go back to basics so that you can consider a wide variety of insurance provider and not just those offering pay-as-you-drive or telematics insurance. Here are the top 9 tips for finding the cheapest car insurance for young drivers: Visit Familymoney.co.uk for more money-saving tips. Pick One of the Cheapest Vehicles to Insure for Young Drivers The cost of car insurance is often a major factor in the buying process when looking for a good first car to buy. All cars on the market belong to 1 of 50 different car insurance groups with the cheapest cars to insure for new drivers found in groups 1 to 5. It is particularly important for many young drivers, both male and female, with fast cars that are typically more expensive. Avoid Getting Car Modifications Car modifications, such as body kits and alloy wheels usually tend to appeal to young drivers looking to personalise their plain-looking hatchbacks or medium-sized cars. If you want the best insurance for young drivers, it is best to avoid them because modifications have been known to increase insurance premiums by hundreds of pounds. Again, it is the sort of thing that young drivers that have or want fast cars need to know. If you are determined to get car modifications, consider whether you would be happy about replacing the modified parts with cheaper ones. Otherwise, you risk find yourself staring at much higher costs of insurance premiums. Consider a Black Box Policy A black box policy is also referred to as a telematics policy and it uses either an app or small device that’s installed in the car for monitoring usage and driving behavior. Such types of policy can help lower the cost of car insurance for young drivers since insurance companies can base the premiums on actual driving patters and behavior as opposed to the assumption that all young drivers are at risk of making a claim. If there ever was a way to get the cheapest car insurance for young drivers, then a black box policy is definitely top on the list. Drivers between the ages 17 and 21 with zero claims can save in upwards of $1,600 by choosing black box insurance instead of a standard policy. Pay Annually, Not Monthly The average car insurance premium for young drivers runs into thousands of dollars, which is why you might be tempted to stagger the payments as opposed to paying for the entire cover in one go. It is often much cheaper to pay for the entire year in advance as opposed to making monthly payments, if you can afford to. You can save a substantial amount since you will avoid the monthly interest charges. Consider Increasing Your Excess If you choose to pay a higher excess voluntarily on top of the mandatory excess you are quoted – the amount you would be required to pay upfront if you made a claim – can lower the cost of your car insurance considerably. Still, you need to ensure that you can afford to pay the excess if you are ever involved in an accident. Young drivers that don’t have a lot of money to spare may struggle to pay up in upwards of £600 after an accident. Furthermore, statistically speaking, young drivers have a higher chance of making claims within the first year of driving, which is why you need to beware that you might find yourself having to pay a higher voluntary excess much earlier than expected. Think About Your Coverage Needs Comprehensive car insurance is typically the most expensive type of insurance you can buy for your car. It covers your car as well as other vehicles if you are ever involved in an accident. The most basic level of cover is the third-party cover that’s used to cover claims against you should you ever find yourself in an accident where someone is injured. It also covers the cost of replacing or repairing the other person’s car, but not yours. You need to think about how regularly you plan to be driving, what you are able to afford to cover, and the kind of superficial damage to your car that you are prepared to live with. Don’t Assume That Third-Party Insurance is Ideal for Young Drivers It pays to compare quotes with different levels of coverage before buying. It is estimated that the average third-party, theft and fire premium is generally more expensive compared to comprehensive cover since younger drivers who are more likely to make larger claims often choose it. Always keep this in mind before comparing car insurance for young drivers. It is also not a good idea to search for cheap car insurance on the basis of price alone. It is also important to assess the type of cover that you need. Sacrificing the quality of cover over price might end up costing you more in the end. Adding a Named Driver, But Beware of ‘Fronting’ If you were to add an extra named driver to your insurance policy, it would be possible to reduce your car insurance costs. It works best if the driver to be added is older and more experienced on the road, although you need to avoid those with points. Putting the policy in the name of a parent with the young driver as the named driver when in reality they will be the main driver is referred to as ‘fronting’ and is illegal and may result in the rejection of claims by insurance companies. Limit Risk and Increase Security You can often get cheaper cover by adding extra security features such as an immobilizer or alarm. Car insurance can be even cheaper if you will be parking your car in a garage or driveway at night instead of leaving it on the street since insurance companies view this as one more way to further minimize risk. +++9
Ray Elliott is a veteran tow truck driver in the San Francisco Bay Area who also publishes the website idiotsontheinterstate.com. In addition to his vast expertise helping motorists, he posts commentaries and videos that ideally define his online platform’s name. Elliott has twice been a guest on The Weekly Driver Podcast and the subject of a column I wrote several months ago for the San Jose Mercury and East Bay Times. He knows the industry from a unique perspective. It’s when vehicles aren’t running properly after breakdowns or involvement in accidents. Tow truck dirver Ray Elliott isn't fond of the 2019 Chrysler Pacficia. Tow truck driver Ray Elliott isn’t fond of the 2019 Chrysler Pacifica. Image © James Raia/2019 For the past several years, I’ve written end-of-the-year articles, selecting the top vehicle of the year. To view the list, visit: 2019  Best Cars and Trucks. Advertising Disclosure: TheWeeklyDriver.com is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com. Elliott disagrees with two of my selections and his reasons make sense. With his permission to repost, here’s his email: “I read your top-10 list today and I must severely disagree with two of your choices. In fact, the Chrysler Pacifica, would be my choice of top-ten most dangerous cars ever. Let me enlighten you. “I came across a two-week-old Pacifica that was overheating, on a freezing cold day, none the less. The van would start, but it had a frosted over the windshield, so to move it, I rolled down the driver’s window so I could stick my head out and see. “I put the van in drive, released the electric parking brake and started to go forward. I stuck my head out the window, resulting in my butt lifting off the seat. The van sensed I was not in the seat, thus it put itself in park and set the brake resulting in a sudden stop and slamming my neck against the door pillar. I tried a second time with the same result. I tried just pushing the car with the engine off, but the same thing happened when I got out of the driver’s seat. “This is so dangerous. What if the car stalls in traffic? The operator will never be able to push the van to a safe place.  You are now stuck, blocking traffic, screwing up the whole highway, risking getting hit. “The other scary-dangerous thing about the Pacifica is the spare tire.  Having a spare tire is now an option, so if the van has one, good luck finding it, let alone access it. Releasing the spare can result in damage to your dash, and it must be taken from its hiding space via the driver’s side, into traffic. “If your driver’s side front tire is flat, you can’t get it out safely, if at all. You must jack up the van, then crawl under it to get the spare. If the jack fails, you die, and your legs are sticking out into traffic. And the spare is a doughnut, so it will be flat anyway. “The other vehicle is the GMC Sierra. Now, granted, my example is with a Chevy 1500, but they are essentially the same trucks. My encounter was a 2019 Chevy that had stalled in the roadway. It was the second time this happened to this truck. Pushing the start button would power up the truck, but it wouldn’t turn the motor over. “I could put the transmission in neutral and release the electric parking brake, but when I got out of the truck, it set the brake. Sitting in the middle of a major roadway (El Camino Real), fighting this stupid brake is so dangerous. How does one move one’s dead car to a safe place if you can’t make it roll? Let alone load it onto a flatbed tow truck. “Automakers need to understand how unsafe electric parking brakes, electronic shifters, and push-starts are and go back to mechanical options. Cars should not think for me! And ALL cars should have a full-size spare tire that is easily accessible. All the other cars, I can mostly agree with you. Keep up the good work, James and Happy New Year. Your friend and colleague, Ray Elliott.” +++9
Consumer Telematics Show 2020 offers auto tech immersion James Raia | December 24, 2019 | Auto News, Auto Shows Share Tweet LinkedIn Email Print SPONSORED CONTENT TU-Automotive has powered B2B automotive technology events for over 20 years. Having recently combined with WardsAuto and Wards Intelligence, we are able to offer much more top industry-led expert content through conferences, exhibitions, reports, digital media and more. Join us in 2020 for the first in our series of events, Consumer Telematics Show 2020. Join us on January 6 and immerse yourself in the future of automotive technology. Advertising Disclosure: TheWeeklyDriver.com is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com. Consumer Telematics Show 2020 offers auto tech immersion. It's scheduled January in Las Vagas. The Consumer Telematics Show 2020 offers auto tech immersion. It’s scheduled January 6 in Las Vagas. Automakers are no longer just focused on the exterior. Increasingly, the consumer is being swayed by the in-vehicle experience. To stay competitive, automakers are adopting new consumer-centric technology that seamlessly brings our creature comforts into the car. CTS 2020 talking points include: Consumer Telematics Show 2020 offers auto tech immersion The Consumer Telematics Show 2020 offers auto tech immersion • Entertainment: Will the future car be seen as a method of transport or an extension of our homes, where our creature comforts and infotainment will seamlessly integrate between devices? • Voice Technology: How will voice technology impact the driver experience? Will consumers adopt an automaker’s HMI or will they continue to favor Alexa or Siri? • UX: Examining how new technologies will allow users to seamlessly switch devices from mobile to car, without interruption, personalizing their experience. • Fintech: Will your car be an extension of your wallet? Can the infrastructure be monetized through pay per use services? Will automakers need to collaborate directly with banks or retailers? • Brand: Understand the strategic value of in-vehicle design in improving user retention and increasing brand loyalty. • Data: Are we data-rich but knowledge-poor? Telematics and IoT technologies enable us to collect more data about our users than ever before. But who owns the data? How can we use the data? How do we protect the data? Speakers are joining us from: Amazon Web Services, argo designs, Audi, Autonomous Drivers Alliance (ADA), AvisBudget, BlackBerry Technology Solutions, BYTON, Connected Vehicle Trade Association (CVTA), Fiserv, FLEXOUND Augmented Audio, FORCIOT, Ford Motor Company, Hyundai Design North America, Immersion, Karma Automotive, Kymeta, LexisNexis Risk Solutions, LyricFind, MIT, NPG Capital, Ovum, Roborace, SiriusXM Connected Vehicles Services, SFB Consulting, Strategy Analytics, Spotify, Toyota North America, TU-Automotive, Upstream Security, Veoneer, Visa, Volvo, Wards Intelligence, wejo, YouTube, ZF Group. Register today and save 15 percent on your ticket using the code WEEKLYDRIVER Visit the website to secure your ticket today. The world’s leading automakers send representatives to Las Vegas each year to find out about the latest innovations in consumer technology. With the entire automotive technology ecosystem represented, CTS 2020 is where these new technologies in relation to the automotive space are discussed. If you’re with an automaker you qualify for complimentary passes to Consumer Telematics Show 2020. These passes include access to all conference sessions, access to visionary speakers, the chance to meet with innovative technology providers, and memorable experiences such as the Happy Hour Roundtables, the LIVE Debate and the After Party. +++9
2020 Toyota Prius: hybrid sedan still worthy after all these years James Raia | December 2, 2019 | Car Review Videos, Toyota Share Tweet LinkedIn Email Print The Toyota Prius, a combined gas-electric hybrid, was introduced into the United States in 2000, three years after it debuted in Japan. It was a dream car for the ecologically minded. But its freakish looks and sluggish engine prompted brutal criticism. It was called hideous to a larva on wheels. Two decades later, hybrids in all variants still haven’t swayed buyers’ purchasing habits. In recent years, only a fluctuating 2 to 3 percent of vehicles sold in the United States are alternative fuel offerings. 2020 ToyotA Prius The 2020 Toyota Prius is still a worthy a hybrid sedan as sales stumble. The original Prius and its expanding family, the tiny Prius C to the spacious Prius V, changed the industry. And although the alternative fuel industry is transitioning to electric vehicles, every major manufacturer offers at least one hybrid. Advertising Disclosure: TheWeeklyDriver.com is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com. Nonetheless, Prius sales peaked in 2012 but fell to about one-third of the best 236,000 annual sales in 2018. It’s been outsold by the soon-to-be-defunct Ford Fusion hybrid this year. Tesla’s influence and carmakers’ increasing emphasis on hybrid SUVs have contributed to the Prius family decline. Surprisingly, the trend didn’t seem warranted recently when driving the 2020 Toyota Prius. A colleague and I negotiated the top-line Limited trim about 800 miles roundtrip from Sacramento to Los Angeles to attend the Los Angeles Auto Show. The current fourth-generation Prius was introduced in 2016 and for 2020 has several technology upgrades. Apple CarPlay and Amazon functions, a larger 7-inch center display and safety connection services are now standard on all trims. With its current styling and more spacious and improved overall quality, the Prius is further connected to its competitors. It remains uniquely styled, but its facelift works. It’s no longer a design afterthought. Given the purpose of the trip (new car nirvana) driving the 1.8-liter, 16-valve, 4-cylinder Prius to Los Angeles didn’t seem an ideal choice. We were wrong. The expedient route is Interstate 5. It’s a direct, well-paved and high-speed trek until it transitions into the transportation mess that defines Los Angeles. The Prius has 121 horsepower and shouldn’t be expected to compete against performance vehicles in ever-changing traffic patterns. But despite an average traffic speed that sometimes exceeded the posted speed limited by 15 miles per hour, the Prius didn’t flinch. There were no issues in either direction while negotiating the extremes of the 40-mile stretch known as The Grapevine. The continuously variable transmission transitioned smoothly. The Prius also offers a quiet ride in comfort, considering the segment. Backseat passengers don’t get much spare room, but the driver and front-seat passenger have more than adequate headroom and legroom and seats are comfortable. Equipment for the lowest-priced L Eco trim is abundant. Automatic LED headlights, 15-inch wheels heated mirrors, keyless entry (driver door only) and ignition, automatic climate control, adaptive cruise control, a tilt-and-telescoping steering wheel and a 60/40-split folding rear seat are all standard. A seven-inch touchscreen display, six-speaker audio system are also in the mix. Standard safety features include: Automatic high beams, forward collision mitigation with automatic braking as well as lane departure warning and intervention.The top-trim Limited includes a sunroof and an Advanced Technology package, navigation system, 11.6-inch touchscreen and a premium JBL audio system. Versatility is also a Prius strongpoint. Nearly a dozen sub-models are offered with front-wheel drive or newly available all-wheel drive. The Prius (except for the V) lineup still has an obstructed rearview. And during our trek, the navigation system “froze” a few times, requiring a re-boot. But the Prius performed far better than its reputation. Its mission is efficiency. We averaged just under 58 miles per gallon, more than 10 percent higher than the advertised estimate. Prius sales may further decline with the influx of SUV hybrids and electric platforms. But don’t underestimate the original industry changer. It’s a worthy, value-oriented choice with its most expensive option just below $35,000. +++9
2019 Lexus IS350, a worthy sporty sedan failing James Raia | October 25, 2019 | Car Reviews Share Tweet LinkedIn Email Print Comfort, superior ride quality and luxury aren’t often strong sports car characteristics. Feeling the road, shifting gears and making the best of a rugged minimalist interior provides a good chunk of the appeal. The 2019 Lexus IS350 rejects the norm. Defined as a five-passenger small sedan, the IS350 matches a quiet, relaxing and comfortable sedan with an aggressive-looking sports car. It’s ready for some country road shenanigans or long, smooth freeway hauls. The 2019 Lexus IS350 is a worthy sporty sedan with far fewer buyers. The 2019 Lexus IS350 is a worthy sporty sedan with far fewer buyers. The Lexus IS (Intelligent Sport) debuted in North American in 2000; the 350 variant arrived in 2008. Its third and current generation was unveiled in 2013, with a revamp in 2016. While 2020 models have just emerged, the still-available 2019 offering remains largely unchanged from recent years. Three-beam LED headlights are a new option as is voice command integration for Amazon Alexa devices. Advertising Disclosure: TheWeeklyDriver.com is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com. With its 3.5-liter V6 engine with 311 horsepower, sporty driving is easily accomplished. But the smooth-driving reduced stressed alternative is equally pleasing. The IS350 is available with rear-wheel drive and eight-speed automatic transmission or all-wheel drive and a six-speed automatic. Normal, ECO, Sport and Snow driving modes, 18-inch, five-spoke wheels and steering-wheel-mounted paddle shifters add to the fun. Gas mileage averages are 20 miles per gallon in city driving, 28 miles per gallon in freeway conditions. Standard features also include LED headlights, a sunroof, heated side mirrors, keyless entry and ignition, dual-zone automatic climate control, power-adjustable front seats, simulated leather upholstery (NuLuxe), 60/40 split-folding rear seatbacks, an auto-dimming rearview mirror. Bluetooth, Lexus Enform Remote vehicle controls, two USB ports, a 7-inch color display, and an eight-speaker sound system with an auxiliary audio input, satellite radio and HD radio flush out a healthy list. For those with further sporty inclinations, the F Sport trim has its same-named package ($3,195). It includes more than a dozen items — a leather steering wheel to aluminum pedals — and offers more driving dynamics to improve handling and styling. Drivers get a strong sense of the driving experience. Standard driver assistance technology features include a rearview camera, automatic high beams, lane departure warning and intervention, adaptive cruise control. There’s also a forward-collision warning system with pedestrian detection and automatic braking. A healthy supply of further equipment embellishments work well. The 15-Mark Levinson audio system costs $1,600; the complex navigation system adds $2,845. With a few singular further additions added to the mix, the IS350 costs $52,163. The tally warrants a prolonged pause. Competitors include the Audi A4, BMW 3 Series, Mercedes-Benz C-Class and the newly touted and highly honored Genesis G70. The German carmakers’ offerings have loyal followings; the South Korean newcomer was named to many best-of-the-year lists. The IS350 doesn’t get close to the mainstays’ sales, and its tallies have drastically plummeted. Sales in the United States in 2018 were 22,927, about half of the total in 2014. Lexus has been the top-rated luxury brand for more than a decade, so the sports car-small luxury sedan’s plight doesn’t jibe. Nearly every vehicle has shortcomings, including the IS350. It has limited console space, small cupholders and mediocre gas mileage averages. The rear seats don’t fold flat and back seat passengers don’t have much breathing room. Trunk space accommodates several grocery bags but not much else. Lexus has kept its weirdly shaped spindle front grille despite vast disdain. Among other incongruities, the grille on every Lexus looks like it’s mounted upside down. Still, the IS350 is satisfying on many levels. But it’s a strong choice in a crowded, well-heeled field in which buyers are increasingly shopping elsewhere. +++9
Nissan concept EV defines brilliantly bizarre city car future James Raia | October 2, 2019 | Auto News, Hybrid/Diesel/Electric cars, Nissan Concept vehicles are polarizing, preposterous and brilliant, and sometimes simultaneously. Nissan has added to the wacky category with its new, all-electric IMk. Designed with the ideas of Japanese “city cars,” the IMk has been defined by Nissan as a chic vehicle and with the clever marketing phrase, “reduces driver stress.” Nissan has joined the concept car craze with futuristic all EV city car. Nissan has joined the concept car craze with a futuristic all-electric city car. The minimalist dash of the Nissan concept all-electric city car. Check out the exterior copper paint and matching wheels of the Nissan concept EV city car. The driving future (maybe) with the Nissan concept EV city car. Advertising Disclosure: TheWeeklyDriver.com is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com. What car has ever reduced driver stress? Built on a new electric vehicle platform, the IMk features ProPILOT advanced driver-assist technologies and seamless connectivity features. The carmaker reports the concept “gives a glimpse at what urban-oriented cars might look like and feel like in the near future.” The design and proportions of the IMk are meant to reflect a minimal aesthetic drawing on the Nissan design philosophy called Timeless Japanese Futurism. With its simple flowing lines, the concept is ideally defined by minimalism. Its exterior copper color is called Akagane. The manufacturer says it “pays homage to artisans who formed copper into functional works of art.” For those who embrace imagery, the IMk has a bench seat, giving the impression of “floating on a cloud.” The minimalistic theme is further continued by a near-barren landscape. The dash only has a start button and shifter. Vehicle speed and navigation directions appear in midair using a bezel-less prism design. Additional information is given to the driver via holographic displays. ProPilot Remote Park would allow the vehicle to park itself and retrieve the driver at their location. Nissan hasn’t released any details of the vehicle’s battery size, range, top speed, recharging time or potential price. And, of course, like all concept cars, Nissan hasn’t said if the IMk will be produced. +++9
2019 Honda Insight comes of age as handsome four-door hybrid James Raia | July 13, 2019 | Car Reviews, Honda, Hybrid/Diesel/Electric cars The original Honda Insight debuted as a 2000 model and received more mockery than respect. It was a far-from-perfect, two-door subcompact that looked like a mechanical peanut on wheels. With its unique appearance, the Insight garnered more attention as an oddity than it did for its now-important legend. It was the first mass-produced hybrid available in the United States. It was ugly, simultaneously cool and it got whooped in sales a few months later when the Toyota Prius debuted. The 2019 Honda Insight is now a four-door hybrid sedan The 2019 Honda Insight is now a four-door hybrid sedan. Two decades later, Toyota still dominates the country’s alternative fuel vehicle sales. But Honda is still an innovation leader. Beginning with the 2019 edition, the Insight is now a midsize, four-door sedan. The hatchback configuration has been dispatched for a mainstream design. Honda’s innovation to boldly go beyond includes the hydrogen-propelled Clarity. Advertising Disclosure: TheWeeklyDriver.com is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com. The original Insight was discontinued in 2006 but a new-look model returned in 2010. Honda hoped to infiltrate Prius sales offering the base model at less than $20,000 and as the country’s cheapest hybrid. Toyota still dominated. Plenty of other hybrids are now available. Nearly every manufacturer offers an alternative fuel vehicle its lineup. But the new Insight joins a select group of hybrids that don’t look like science experiments. Nothing’s better for a carmaker selling a hybrid than a compliment from an onlooker who didn’t know the vehicle was a hybrid. It’s another Insight strength. It’s far more attractive than either of its predecessors. Available in LX, EX and Touring trims, the Insight is powered by a hybrid powertrain composed of a 1.5-liter, four-cylinder engine. It provides power to an electric motor that drives the front wheels. Combined, there’s 151 horsepower, with a 1.1-kWh lithium-ion battery located under the rear seats. Like all Hondas, the Insight has a strong standard features list, even the base LX. Automatic LED headlights, heated mirrors, keyless ignition, automatic climate control, active noise cancellation, Bluetooth, a multi-angle rearview camera comprise worthy selection. A 5-inch touchscreen, a six-speaker audio system with a USB port and Pandora internet streaming radio are also included. Standard advanced safety features include adaptive cruise control, forward collision warning and mitigation, lane keeping assist, automatic high beams, a traffic sign reader, and a driver attention monitor. Keyless entry, a rear-seat center armrest, 60/40-split folding rear seats, an 8-inch touchscreen, HondaLink smartphone integration, Apple CarPlay and Android Auto smartphone integration are upgrades on the EX trim. The upgrade also includes an additional USB port, eight-speaker audio system with satellite and HD radio and blind-spot camera system. The reviewed Touring trim adds plenty: LED foglights, a sunroof, dual-zone automatic climate control, leather upholstery, heated front seats, power-adjustable front seats and an auto-dimming rearview. Plus, there’s a universal garage door opener, a navigation system, a Wi-Fi hotspot and a 10-speaker premium audio system. The Insight’s driving characteristics are classic Honda. It has a tight turning radius and a confident feel on the road. Braking is solid with no hesitation or mushy feeling like you’re pushing the pedal through the floorboard. Acceleration is satisfactory, and the Insight only has difficulty on steep inclines when the engine noticeably struggles and does so loudly. When the Insight was introduced, Honda touted fuel efficiency in city driving as more than 60 miles per gallon. The EPA calculations have been amended through the years, with 2019 rating posted as 51 miles per gallon in city driving and 45 miles per gallon on the highway. The manufacturer’s suggested retail price is $28,090. Nearly 20 years after Honda debuted its hybrid lineup, it’s still trying to deflate the success of Toyota’s family of alternative fuel vehicles. The new Insight may or may not emerge as a serious challenger. But there’s plenty to say for healthy competition. +++9
2019 Honda Civic: lagging sales, still rules as top-rated compact James Raia | October 14, 2019 | Economy cars, Honda The Fit, Civic and Accord, sub-compact, compact and midsize sedan siblings, collectively represent nearly everything right in the automotive industry. If value, durability, functionality, fuel economy, repair efficiency and resale value are important, there’s nothing better than the Honda trio. Yet the threesome, all rated at or near the top of their segments, are rapidly losing new buyers. The 2019 Honda Civic defines the ideal compact. It’s now in the fourth year of its 10th generation after debuting in 1972. But between generations, Honda, like most manufacturers, makes model adjustments, subtle to substantial. Advertising Disclosure: TheWeeklyDriver.com is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com. With the 2019 model (the 2020 model is also now available), the Civic’s front end has been restyled; it’s less drastic and more attractive. The Honda Sensing bundle is now also standard on all models. It includes lane departure and lane assist, forward collision mitigation and adaptive cruise standard on all trims. The infotainment center has also been amended with a return to a previous feature, a volume knob. Previously, volume adjustment was done with touch-screen controls, potential driving distractions. Clearly labeled climate control knobs on the center console also simplify the user experience. Variety is among the Civic’s most impressive attributes. The compact is available as a hatchback, coupe or sedan and in nine trims, depending upon body style. Several dozen configurations are possible, making the Civic attractive to even the most fastidious shoppers. For several years, the Civic and Accord, depending upon their respective models, have been near twins. The Civic got bigger, the Accord smaller. Some buyers wondered why they shouldn’t buy a Civic and save money. The comparison isn’t completely accurate, but the Civic and Accord share many positives. Comfortable, modern, well-designed and thrifty, the 2019 Civic Touring trim features a 1.5-liter, turbocharged, four-cylinder engine with 174 horsepower. The front-wheel-drive Civic advances with a continuously variable transmission and it includes paddle shifters. Gas mileage averages are 30 miles per gallon in city driving, 27 miles per gallon on the freeway. The price is $27,700. The standard safety, interior and exterior features lists are extensive, including leather trio: seats, steering wheel and shifter knob. It pushes the Civic to the edges of luxury for its segment. The LaneWatch feature is a blindspot monitor. When the right-turn signal is engaged, an image of the passenger side of the car is presented on the center screen. Acceleration is satisfactory with the standard 0-60 miles per hour test accomplished in 6.5 seconds. Excellent maneuverability, well-balanced handling, a quiet ride and plenty of space for front and back seat occupants all add to the Civic’s appeal. There’s nothing not to like about Honda’s enduring little machine. But why are sales tumbling? The Civic’s sales were 51,000 units lower last year than in 2017. The Fit and Accord also had substantially lower sales in 2018 from a year early. One major culprit: Honda is competing against itself. With the industry’s ever-broadening affinity for SUVs, the HR-V, CR-V and Pilot are increasingly popular. The HR-V’s yearly sales have doubled since Honda’s smallest SUV debut in 2015. The HR-V and Pilot had their best sales years in 2018. With Honda’s long-held status as among the manufacturers with the best resale value, it’s never felt compelled to increase its basic warranty 3 years and 36,000 miles. Lastly, Honda has never participated in fleet sales for rental agencies. It’s a mainstay part of top-selling Toyota, Ford, Chevrolet and newer manufacturers such as Hyundai and Kia. The result: Honda’s sales numbers look ominous. But the Fit, Civic and Accord are more than worthy selections and perennially top-rated. The numbers don’t tell the story. +++9
2019 Mazda6: worthy sedan struggles against Honda, Toyota James Raia | September 28, 2019 | Car Reviews The 2019 Mazda6 is among several manufacturers’ offerings presented in recent years to infiltrate the dominance of the Honda Accord and Toyota Camry. It’s automotive competition at its finest. Beyond the Mazda6, consider the Chevrolet Malibu, Ford Fusion, Hyundai Sonata, Kia Optima, Nissan Altima, Subaru Legacy and Volkswagen Passat. Reasons abound for any of the alternatives to the midsize monoliths as solid choices. The 2019 Mazda6 is a worthy sedan but its sales suffer against Honda and Toyota. Image courtesy of Mazda. Honda and Toyota sedans remain the definitions of consistency and have among the industry’s best resale values. The Mazda6 in 2018 sold about 10 percent of the Accord and Camry tallies, and its best annual sales season was 15 years ago. It can’t match the resale leaders. Advertising Disclosure: TheWeeklyDriver.com is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com. Little has changed on the Mazda6 since a mid-cycle refresh on the 2018 model debuted in November at the 2017 Los Angeles Auto Show. The facelift gave the Mazda its best exterior and interior since it arrived in 2002. Like its one-year older stablemate, the 2019 Mazda has new front and rear fascias and new aluminum-alloy wheel designs. The i-Activsense driver assistance technology is standard on all trim levels. Interior fabrics and upholsteries are much improved on all trims. The only substantial changes from a year ago? A manual transmission option has been eliminated, leaving all trims with six-speed automatic transmission. Front-wheel drive is the only option. Mazda’s design changes vault the sedan into the top of handsome car fraternity. The angled front is a not-too-distant relative of an Aston Martin and overall styling sleek and flowing. The reviewed Signature trim (turbo 2.5-liter, six-speed automatic) features a warm, minimalist interior with microfiber suede on the dash, upgraded leather seating, wood trim and bright silver finishes on various controls. A surround-view camera system with front and rear parking sensors, a frameless rear mirror, a well-pixelated and intuitive navigation system, digital gauge cluster and LED interior lighting add to the overall attractiveness. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) gives the 2019 Mazda6 its highest rating of five stars overall, with five stars in the front and side crash tests and four stars in the rollover test. The independent Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS) also gives the Mazda6 its best score of Good in every crash test, as well as a Superior in the crash avoidance and mitigation test. Driving the Mazda6 is for those who enjoy the idea of being “connected” to a car. Throttle response is linear, providing a feeling the car and driver have a “relationship.” The sedan isn’t a powerful demon, but its 227 horsepower is satisfactory. Handling is superior — maneuvering through traffic to tight u-turns. It’s poised and agile, a family sedan with sports car leanings. Lots of mid-size sedans are touted as seating five. Like much of its competition, the Mazda6 is better-suited for four adults. Interior head and legroom are adequate, but entering and exiting the vehicle can be problematic. The doors are heavy, the door openings small for the class. The Mazda6 advances from 0-60 miles per hour in 6.7 seconds, about a half-second slower than a Honda Accord and about average for the segment. Gas mileage averages are 26 miles per gallon in the city, 35 miles per gallon on the freeway. The Signature trim’s price is $36,520. Mid-size sedan buyers have the best of it. Honda and Toyota thrive. Ford, Subaru and cousins Hyundai and Kia are ever-improving and have the industry’s best warranties. And what of the Mazda6? It’s good-looking, sporty and offers strong competition for the leaders of the pack. But it’s in a supporting role in the midsize sedan cast. It’s worthy but may never land a leading role against the reigning stars. +++9
2019 Nissan Titan: tough competitors, tough road ahead James Raia | September 3, 2019 | Car Reviews, Nissan, Wagons/Pick-ups Pickup trucks for many years have topped annual sales charts. With their sport utility vehicle cousins as co-conspirators, several manufacturers did what seemed unfathomable — abandon their sedan lineups. Poor gas mileage, difficult entry and exit and sometimes clunky rides don’t matter. Masculinity and versatility reign in new automotive purchasing. The top six best-selling vehicles in the United States in 2018 were either pickups or SUVs. 2019 Nissan Titan The 2019 Nissan Titan Pro4X is improved but has plenty of competition. Image © Nissan Motors. Good reasons abound. In many instances, pickups are luxurious small apartments. Advertising Disclosure: TheWeeklyDriver.com is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com. The Nissan Titan is among the few trucks struggling. Sales slipped to just over 50,000 in 2018, a loss of nearly 5 percent from a peak year in 2017, according to Kelley Blue Book, the automotive research company. The manufacturer is trying to rally with the 2019 Nissan Titan, the third year of the truck’s second generation. The new edition has several upgrades — some standard, others in option packages. New standard offerings include a seven-inch screen audio display, a rear door alert system as well as Apple Car Play and Android Auto. An impressive 485-watt, 12-speaker Fender audio system is new among the expansive list of equipment in the Pro-4x Utility Package ($1,845). The Convenience Package ($3,545) features leather and power seating and other comforts such as a power, heated, tilt and telescopic steering wheel and heated front and rear seats. Comfort in a pickup was once considered a contradiction. Now, it’s often the rule. The Titan’s ride is comfortable with well-constructed buckets in the front and an equally pleasant rear bench seat with room for three adults. Legroom is plentiful. The roof is positioned high to accommodate taller passengers. Still, the main focus of the segment is ruggedness. The Titan is equipped with a 5.6-liter V8, 390 horsepower and a seven-speed automatic transmission. It advances from 0-60 miles per hour in 6.4 seconds, average for the segment. The truck is fully capable with its shift-on-the-fly 4-wheel-four drive system and hill start assist and descent control. Standard are 18-by-8-inch aluminum wheels. It all adds up to provide the Titan’s strengths and its best environment — off-road. Its 15 miles per gallon in city driving and 20 miles per gallon in freeway averages are better than some competitors. But it’s a far from a cost-effective way to travel in city treks. It’s peculiar for a vehicle with small overall yearly sales to offer so many models and trims levels. The Titan is available in 52 configurations. The Diesel Crew Cab Reserve with four-wheel drive is the top-line with a base price of $67,575. The entry-level, two-wheel Single Cab Titan with cloth seats and a lower-end, six-speaker auto system, begins at $30,030. The Pro-4X ($46,710) is a strong choice. It caters to the Titan’s off-road strengths. Bilstein shocks, all-terrain off-road tires, electronic locking rear differential and skidplates are added to the truck’s already satisfactory standard features list. Hauling versatility is another major attribute. The Titan’s bed options include the Utili-track Bed Channel System, a spray-in bed liner and LED bed-rail lighting. The channel system is a tie-down format with adjustable cleats and rails. Locking storage boxes are available. The tailgate is also damped; it prevents slamming; instead, it lowers steadily. With its four option packages, the Pro-4X is priced $54,290. Equipment aside, the Titan’s shortcomings are performance and its driving persona. The top-selling Ford F-150 and Ram 1500 get higher marks for precise steering as well as overall maneuverability and handling. Tight turns for the Titan are problematic. Acceleration is satisfactory. But the Titan, despite its name, lacks the same command of the road as its top competitors. It’s a long way from weak, but it’s not a divine truck, like its supreme namesake in Greek mythology. +++9
2019 Mazda3: Can hatchback help rally poor sales? James Raia | August 9, 2019 | Car Reviews Nearly every mainstream manufacturer has a basic car marketed to appeal to budget buyers and a flagship model touted to redefine luxury. Competition is fierce, and the extremes of success and failure can often be defined by Mazda. The former Mazda Miata (now the MX-5) is 30-years-old and is the best-selling sports car in history. But the carmaker’s overall sales and industry influence continue to stumble. Individual models, like the CX9, are highly respected. But Mazda sales fell in 2016 to 1.7 percent of the U.S. market share — the carmaker’s lowest tally. More than two dozen compact crossovers are available in 2019, among including the Mazda3 hatchback. It’s fully redesigned this year as the manufacturer tries to regain its one stronger market share. The fun-to-drive, well-constructed and efficient little machine sold half as many units in 2018 as it did in 2012. Advertising Disclosure: TheWeeklyDriver.com is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com. The new Mazda3 is slightly longer and has more rear-seat room and cargo space than its predecessor. The 2.5-liter, four-cylinder engine has also been tweaked to 186 horsepower, two more horsepower than in 2018. Streamlining transmission options, the Mazda3 is only offered with a six-speed automatic transmission and a manual shift mode. There’s one exception. The highest-level trim is also available with a manual transmission. The 2019 Mazda3 has been redesigned with more interior space and increased horsepower. The 2019 Mazda3 has been redesigned with more interior space and increased horsepower. Compact car owners can’t expect spaciousness, and the Mazda3’s biggest fault is its proportions, particularly entering and exiting the front seats. A basic understanding of yoga is required for occupants to find their way. The back seats are easier to master, while both locations get high marks for comfort. The interior layout is straight forward and constructed with quality materials. Gauges and dials are clean and simple. An optional head-up display beams particulars in crisp focus. Gone is the folding head-up display that provided more distraction than assistance. Throughout the Mazda lineup, advancing is best described as steady. The Mazda progresses from 0-to-60 miles per hour in 7.0 seconds, a good effort for the segment. Several competitors, including Kia, Honda, Hyundai and Volkswagen offer turbocharged engines and better gas mileage averages. The Mazda3 is rated 27 miles per gallon in city driving, 32 miles per gallon on the freeway. The MSRP is $28,900. A few small additions, like a wireless charging pad ($275), and taxes push the price to $31,335. Compact sedans defined as “zippy” once weren’t available. The Mazda3 does it well. While not fast, the hatch is responsive and authoritative. Turns and maneuvering through traffic are all part of the fun. The infotainment system includes an 8.8-inch center screen mounted high on the dash and ideally angled for a keen view. It’s controlled using the center knob positioned between the front seats. This approach eliminates the need for drivers to make a long reach to the touch screen. But the system has a learning curve. Android Auto and Apple CarPlay compatibility come on all versions. The Mazda’s i-ActiveSense suite of advanced safety features is standard on most versions. The package includes a driver attention alert, blind-spot warning and rear cross-traffic warning. Despite its state-of-the-art technology, Mazda backfired on a basic. The carmaker recently recalled 22,571 Mazda3 sedans and hatchbacks in the debuting 2019 model. While Mazda reports it hasn’t received notice of injuries or crashes, it’s recalling the vehicles because the glass in the rearview mirror could abruptly fall off. Mazda detailed the problematic Mazda3s were made between Sept. 25, 2018, and June 20, 2019, and have rearview mirror glass that wasn’t adequately bonded to its housing. More expensive trims offer premium features: heated power seats, leather upholstery, paddle shifters, a head-up display, and headlights that swivel in turns. The equipment comes at a price, but the number of options might embarrass the offerings from a few luxury brands. +++9
2020 Kia Telluride: steller SUV debuts in saturated market James Raia | August 1, 2019 | Car Reviews, Kia, Sport Utility Vehicles More sport utility vehicles cruising down the road look alike. Even high-end, niche manufacturers that once disdained the idea of combining luxury and utilitarian characteristics in one vehicle offer SUVs. And they all look the same. Bentley, Maserati and Porsche sell SUVs. What’s next? Aston Martin, Ferrari, Lamborghini and Rolls-Royce SUVs? Yes, they would be the Verekai, Purosangue, Urus and Cullinan. It’s hard to fathom how they’ll fit into the crowded marketplace. The 2010 Kia Telluride is stellar newbie the crowded SUV market. Image courtesy of Kia. The 2010 Kia Telluride is stellar newbie the crowded SUV market. Image courtesy of Kia. The 2020 Kia Telluride debuted in February as a three-row SUV that looks like it could be part of the supercar SUV fraternity. But it costs about 10 percent of some prestigious machines and has a better chance of survival. Advertising Disclosure: TheWeeklyDriver.com is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com. The Telluride also looks like other SUVs. Designer Tom Kearns has detailed in industry publications he was influenced by other carmakers’ vehicles, notably Range Rover. The vehicles’ front grille and the font of the exterior lettering are nearly identical. Kearns’ played youth hockey and the Kia’s taillights resemble pudgy hockey sticks on end. It’s an edgy look that would be further attractive if Kia redesigned its insignia. Although similarities to competitors abound, much is right with the Telluride. And if there’s room for another SUV in the marketplace, the new Kia is as good as any. It has enough unique styling and handy features to warrant attention. Unveiled as a concept in 2016, the Telluride, named after mountain city in Colorado, joins the Sorento, another three-row SUV in the Kia lineup. Offered in LX, S, mid-level EX, and top-line SX trims, the Telluride is a three-row, seven-or-eight passenger SUV with a 3.8-liter, 291-horsepower engine propelled by an eight-speed automatic transmission. Gas mileage estimates for the front-wheel-drive Telluride are 20 miles per gallon in city driving, 26 miles per gallon on the highway. All-wheel drive trims’ mileage estimates are reduced by about five percent. The MSRP is $41,900. At its top level, the Telluride is offered with an SX Prestige Package. It advances the vehicle from a well-conceived, handsome and spacious SUV into near-luxury status. The $2,000 option includes all-wheel drive, Nappa leather trim, a head-up display, heated and ventilated second-row seats, and rain-sensing front windshield wipers. Captain’s chairs replace bench seats in S and SX trims, reducing the seating capacity from eight to seven. Seating and overall comfort in the higher trims is a Kia priority for additional reasons. Upgrades include leather and premium leather upholstery, heated and ventilated first-and second-row seats, power-adjustable front seats, second-row sunshades and a heated steering wheel. The first two rows of seats are also well-padded and roomy. Like many SUVs, third-row seats are best reserved for diminutive occupants. Overall comfort blends well with the Telluride’s smooth ride and steady acceleration of 0-60 miles per hour in 7.1 seconds. Overall space is impressive. There are 21 cubic feet behind the rear seats, expanding to 46 cubic feet with the third row down. The tally is 87 total cubic feet with both rear sections down, the size of a decent storage shed. The Telluride has a 5,000-pound capacity with its $795 towing package. Further interior stylings shine. The light-colored faux wood paneling on the dash and door trims is handsome. Two thick, sturdy grab handles are positioned on the sides of the center console. It’s a keen idea, considering many manufacturers’ preferences for installing handles in hard-to-reach upper corners of the front cabin. The Telluride has strong technology features, including an ideally placed 10.25-inch touchscreen navigation system with sharp graphics. Android Auto, Apple CarPlay, Bluetooth and six USB ports are included as is a 10-speaker Harman Kardon stereo. A feed from side-view cameras is projected on the sides of the instrument panel when the turn signal is activated in either direction. Sport Utility Vehicle saturation is upon us. But the Telluride? It’s a terrific newbie. +++9
Ford celebrates enduring truck success with clever emoji James Raia | July 29, 2019 | Auto News, Ford Ford Motor Company makes the country’s best-selling vehicle, the F-150 pickup. It takes the truck seriously. But the carmaker can also have fun. Consider the manufacturer’s recent clever marketing: “Developing a new vehicle is a challenging process under normal circumstances, but this is something completely different. Today we’re proud to introduce the #TruckEmoji.” Advertising Disclosure: TheWeeklyDriver.com is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com. Ford, with more than 100 years of truck heritage, is entering a white space segment of extremely small pickups by petitioning the Unicode Consortium to add a pickup truck emoji to the approved list of icons. Ford, with more than 100 years of truck heritage, is entering a white space segment of extremely small pickups by petitioning the Unicode Consortium to add a pickup truck emoji to the approved list of icons. The campaign has fun with the wondrous, sometimes silly world of emojis. It’s posted on Ford’s official YouTube channel. Viewers of the video had many responses, some clever, others were less than complimentary. Here are a few: “Wanted a Bronco reveal, got a pick-up emoji.” “It looks like the hill climb challenge game pick up truck.” “Where can I use or find that emoji? what applications does it have?” “So this is what ford has been up to.” And there were sarcastic comments, including: “Discontinued Taurus. Spends time making emoji.” “LOL. Hmmm. I guess you can have it any color you want as long as it’s blue.” Ford posted the video on July 17, World Emoji Day. The day is deemed a “global celebration of emoji” and is celebrated with emoji events and product releases. It’s been celebrated annually since 2014. Last year, the automaker submitted a proposal to the Unicode Consortium, which reviews and approves proposals for new emojis. After a review, the group determined the pickup truck offering has been added to the shortlist of candidates to be included in a future version of Unicode. “When customers started demanding a truck emoji, we knew we had to help make it happen,” Joe Hinrichs, Ford’s president of automotive, said. “Given the popularity of Ford trucks globally, there’s no one better than Ford to help bring an all-new pickup truck emoji to hard-working texters around the globe.” The company said that the concept has been styled to meet current trends. The Ford team spent time digging through message boards, texting influencers and watching social media feeds. “People want a truck emoji that’s fresh, stylish, carries their ideas, and ‘tows’ the line on what a truck means. The result is a modern icon that should give all truck fans a smiley face emoji,” Ford North America Design Director Craig Metros said. If the emoji is approved early next year, it will be customized for all mobile platforms. +++9
2019 Nissan Armada: powerful, safe, guzzles gas James Raia | July 11, 2019 | Car Reviews, Nissan, Sport Utility Vehicles The Nissan Armada is a well-adjusted teenager. It’s positioned firmly in the mix of large sport utility vehicles that remain popular with their massive engines, family comfort, safety and putrid fuel efficiency. The 2019 edition is the vehicle’s 16th year, and its technically and oddly named after a fleet of warships but used in the singular form. It’s also the third year of the Armada’s second generation after Nissan introduced the current model in 2017. Sales doubled. Advertising Disclosure: TheWeeklyDriver.com is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com. The 2019 Nissan Armada is a huge, powerful SUV that guzzles gas. Image © James Raia/2019. With an unyielding variety of SUVs entering the market as crossovers and other large SUVs improving, the Armada’s sales fell a few thousand last year. Yet there’s still a solid corps of buyers who don’t seem concerned about driving a vehicle that weighs about 7,500 pounds and averages 13 miles per gallon in city driving. Only the Rolls-Royce lineup is rated lower. On the contrary, large SUVs buyers embrace their vehicles’ grandness. The Armada defines bigness. If hauling a neighborhood of kids bolstered down in car seats is the task, they’ll be transported in a luxurious tank. If a powerboat or trailer needs towing, the Armada can comfortably haul 8,500 pounds. Of course, its estimated 18 miles per gallon in freeway driving will likely suffer. For a vehicle with an annual sale of only about 35,000 units, the Armada is available in a surprisingly large array of configurations. The reviewed Platinum 4-door trim has a 5.6-liter V8 with 390 horsepower, four-wheel drive and it advances with a 7-speed automatic transmission. Rear-wheel drive is also available. Features also include a 14-speaker Bose audio system, navigation, 8-inch infotainment touch screen, hands-free text-messaging assistance, keyless entry/ignition and parking sensors. The Platinum trim is lavish with 20-inch alloy wheels, a powered tailgate, fog lights, puddle lights, self-dimming mirrors and rain-sensing wipers, heated steering wheel and a rear-seat entertainment system. The 360-degree camera system has a rearview mirror displaying the feed from the rear-facing camera. With the current edition now three years old, Armada changes this year are minimal. Adaptive cruise control and forward collision mitigation are now standard on all trims. Rear Door Alert is also new. If a rear door is opened at the start of a trip but not when the trek stops, an alert sounds as if something or someone is still inside. Despite its massive size, the Armada is also a gentle giant. Its engine noise and wind rush are minimal, and the overall drive is not too far removed from the serenity of a large luxury sedan. Bumps and other road imperfections are largely dismissed. Despite overall small sales numbers a segment, large SUV competition is stiff, the Chevrolet Tahoe, GMC Yukon, Ford Expedition and Toyota Sequoia all worthy. The Nissan Armada makes its case for leadership role with a healthy list of standard features. Wood trim and overall seating, flooring and panel material are superior and the Armada seems larger than it is with the SUV’s substantial glass areas. The overall vision is also superior and seating in all three rows and with an eight-person occupancy further enhances the luxury ride. Cargo space is strong, with 16.5 cubic feet behind the third row. With the second and third rows are folded down, 95.4 cubic feet of cargo space is revealed. The Manufacturer’s Suggested Retail Price (MSRP) is $62,690. With its many options, the Armada’s price escalates to $67,850. The Armada is big and bold. Safety, security and comfort all shine. But there are two constant issues: frequent gas stations visits and a thin wallet. +++9
Ogle Suzuki's Jimny 4x4—Because It's Not Coming to the U.S. and That's All You Can Do The throwback SUV is small, rugged, and Jeep-ishly cute. Suzuki Jimny Front Dark Green Off Road Kei CarSuzuki Jimny Front Dark Green Off Road Kei Car filterSEE ALL 30 PHOTOS Alexander StoklosaWordsJan 18, 2020 You're forgiven for not knowing exactly what the Suzuki Jimny is—or for calling it the "Jimmy," which was a GMC SUV in the '90s. The little 4x4 isn't sold here in the U.S., which is really too bad because it's the small, affordable, elemental SUV that's been missing from American dealerships since Jeep's Wrangler went huge, Hyundai and Kia grew up and started building crossovers, and Suzuki left the U.S. market entirely. With off-roaders roaring back, however, it's worth taking a few moments to drool over the Jimny. The Suzuki's spec sheet describes a delightfully sparse yet rugged little vehicle. You can have your Jimny any way you want as long as it's with two doors, a fixed roof, and four-wheel drive with low-range gearing. A 101-hp 1.5-liter four-cylinder can be paired with either a four-speed automatic (throwback!) or a proper five-speed manual. You can probably guess which transmission does a better job extracting maximum performance, if that's the right word, from that tiny engine. Just like a Wrangler, the Suzuki rides on coil-sprung solid axles front and rear. Dripping wet, a fully optioned Jimny weighs about 2500 pounds (the lightest version tips the scales, barely, at 2400 pounds). And from its snub nose to its externally mounted spare tire in back, it measures just under 12 feet long. In today's world, where vehicles increasingly isolate drivers and passengers from the road and the surrounding world, the starkly elemental Jimny is a throwback in modern clothing. The Interior is simple, though, yes, it offers a touchscreen, and the exterior is highlighted by big round headlights, bumpers, and lots of flat sheetmetal. (In fact, if its styling looks a little familiar, it's because the second-generation Jimny from the '80s was sold here as the Samurai.) It's so right, we previously wrote a pleading story for Ford, begging it to take notes from the Jimny for its upcoming Bronco and Bronco Sport SUVs. From what we know about the bigger Ford Bronco, it likely towers over the spindly Suzuki. But we can all hope the smaller, lighter Bronco Sport takes a few cues from the Jimny, can't we? Just look for yourself in the gallery below: +++9
2020 Audi A4 Allroad Shows The Brand’s Wagon Game Remains Strong Audi’s crossover-fied station wagon gets an update 2020 Audi A4 Allroad 12020 Audi A4 Allroad 1 filterSEE ALL 6 PHOTOS Alex NishimotoWordsManufacturerPhotosJan 16, 2020 With the 591-hp Audi RS6 Avant and A6 Allroad station wagons finally set to reintroduce midsize Audi wagon greatness to the U.S. market this summer, you may be thinking a return for the smaller A4 Avant can't be far behind. Though Audi hasn't ruled out bringing back the regular-grade A4 Avant here, it at least sends over that model's taller, pseudo-crossover sibling, the A4 Allroad. It's basically an A4 Avant with Subaru Outback-style plastic body cladding and a taller ride height. Oh, and like the A4 sedan and A5 lineup, it's been updated for 2020. As is the case with the A4 sedan, the Allroad's drivetrain carries over from last year unchanged. You still get a turbocharged 2.0-liter four-cylinder producing 248 horsepower and 273 lb-ft of torque, a seven-speed dual-clutch automatic transmission, and standard quattro all-wheel drive. The headlights are a different story—like the A4 sedan, the Allroad gains a set of full-LED headlights as standard. As before, the lifted wagon is set apart from its A4 and A5 mechanical siblings by matte-gray plastic body cladding on the fenders and bumpers, along with a unique "Q-design" hexagonal-mesh grille. 2020 Audi A4 Allroad 22020 Audi A4 Allroad 2 filterSEE ALL 6 PHOTOS Allroad models additionally come standard with an adaptive suspension that offers just under 1.4 inches more ground clearance than the A4 sedan provides. There also is a standard panoramic sunroof. For 2020, Audi ups the Allroad's equipment game further, adding in the same new MMI touch infotainment system and its 10.1-inch screen that it gifted to the latest A4 and A5. The display is an instant focal point in the Allroad's updated interior, and Audi says the unit operates up to 10 times faster than the previous iteration (which was operated via several physical buttons and a control knob) and allows for higher-resolution graphics. Audi's second-generation Virtual Cockpit 12.3-inch digital instrument cluster is available, too, along with a full-color head-up display. The 2020 Audi A4 Allroad Quattro starts at $45,595, an $1,100 drop from 2019 model-year pricing. It probably goes without saying that year-over-year price drops for improved vehicles these days is unusual in the best way possible. Step up to the '20 Allroad Premium Plus, and you'll pay $48,695; leap to the top-of-the-line Prestige trim, and Audi will request $54,645 from you. We'd pay more than that for Audi to send us the non-Allroad A4 Avant wagon. Whether that will happen remains to be seen, but if the enhanced Allroad is anything like the pre-refresh version, it's not a bad consolation prize. +++9
he 2020 Audi A5 and S5 Family Receives Mild Botox Injections Light touches and a new touchscreen make the German coupes, hatchbacks, and cabriolets more attractive than before. 2020 Audi A5 Coupe Front Three Quarterjpg2020 Audi A5 Coupe Front Three Quarterjpg filter Nick YekikianWriterCourtesy of the ManufacturerPhotographerJan 16, 2020 Audi has refreshed the A4 sedan's swoopier (and better looking) A5 siblings for 2020. The A5 family's changes for 2020 closely mirror those applied to the A4 and amount to incremental improvements for the two-door coupe and Cabriolet, as well as the four-door A5 Sportback and the hotter S variants of all three. Mechanically, there won't be anything new. The A5 models' turbocharged 2.0-liter four-cylinder engines still make 248 horsepower and 273 lb-ft of torque and come paired to a seven-speed dual-clutch automatic. The S5 coupe, Cabriolet, and Sportback retain the same 349-hp turbocharged 2.9-liter V-6 (making 369 lb-ft of torque) as before. That leaves the bulk of the changes to the cosmetic realm. Up front, the A5 and S5 get flatter and wider honeycomb grilles, in addition to reshaped front bumpers to convey a greater sense of sportiness. Sure. Audi also says the wide-face changes link the 5s to the relentlessly boxy original Audi Quattro, but we're not sure we're seeing the connection. Both the headlights and taillights have been revamped to bring the A5 and S5 in line with the rest of the Audi's lineup. 2020 Audi A5 Coupe Interior2020 Audi A5 Coupe Interior filterSEE ALL 6 PHOTOS Inside, the new A5 and S5 get a new 10.1-inch display with Audi's latest iteration of its MMI, MIB 3—just like their A4 siblings. Audi says the new system is up to ten times faster than the previous one. It's also a touchscreen! Audi was one of the last automakers to hold out and insist on physical controls for its infotainment (using buttons and a rotating click knob controller), but it's finally joined the rest of the automotive world and embraced touch. SPONSORED CONTENT Faster pre- and post- repair diagnostic scans w/ Bosch ADS. By Bosch Diagnostics The two-door A5 coupe and four-door Sportback hatchback models now cost the same, $43,895, despite the latter's extra pair of doors. (The Sportback used to cost $1,300 more than the coupe, a worthy tradeoff for its extra practicality and similarly seductive looks.) The A5 convertible demands an extra $7,000, bringing it to $50,895. For 2020, both the more powerful S5 Coupe and Sportback have a base price of $52,895, $500 less than in 2019. Stepping up to the S5 Cabriolet will cost an eye-watering extra $8,300, but the droptop's base price was cut by a whopping $3,000 relative to last year. Zoom out, and you'll notice that the dominant story line here is how Audi added value to its A5 and S5 range without increasing the cars' prices. Audi says the 2020 models are already on their way to dealerships, so interested parties should keep their eyes peeled. +++9
2020 Mazda CX-30 vs. 2020 Hyundai Kona: Which One Should You Buy? We compare these stylish little SUVs’ compelling features and details 2020 Mazda CX 30 vs 2020 Hyundai Kona comparison2020 Mazda CX 30 vs 2020 Hyundai Kona comparison filterSEE ALL 64 PHOTOS Alex LeanseWordsManufacturerPhotosMotor Trend StaffPhotosJan 16, 2020 Automakers crank out subcompact crossovers by the bushel, but you can't accuse them of copying each other. Proof: the Mazda CX-30 and Hyundai Kona. Although similar in price and size, each offers distinct performance and attributes that successfully position it against the other. There are plenty of reasons to choose one over the other—here are five for each. Get The Mazda CX-30 For… 2020 Mazda CX 30 front three quarter 22020 Mazda CX 30 front three quarter 2 filterSEE ALL 64 PHOTOS A luxurious ambiance: Belying its price point, the CX-30 does an excellent impression of a luxury car. The interior is gorgeous, covered in premium soft-touch materials; there's hardly a brittle plastic surface to be found. It's comfortable with a compliant ride that insulates harshness without feeling floaty. Ergonomics are a focus, given the supportive seats and intuitive placement of controls. Even at highway speeds, it's devoid of wind noise. In comparison, the Kona's cabin is bland and basic with plenty of tire roar making its way inside. Better infotainment: The Kona's touchscreen may initially be more intuitive, but it doesn't take long to figure out the CX-30's infotainment controller knob. Once you do, the Mazda's system is superior. Menus are logically arranged and offer more options to set the car up how you want. Integration with popular smartphones is likewise natural after the dial's short learning curve. All the while the screen is nicer to look at with brighter colors and higher resolution. And, unlike our long-term Kona Ultimate's 8.0-inch screen positioned atop the center stack, the CX-30's dashboard-mounted 8.8-inch screen falls naturally in your line of sight, helping you keep your eyes on the road. Adaptive cruise control: Merge onto the highway, set the CX-30's speed, and take your feet off the pedals—full-speed adaptive cruise control accelerates and brakes for you. It makes sitting in traffic so much easier. Adaptive cruise is standard across the entire CX-30 lineup. Yes, the Kona has it, too, but only on the range-topping Ultimate trim. SPONSORED CONTENT Learn how Mazda makes car and driver feel as one By Mazda 2020 Mazda CX 30 interior 92020 Mazda CX 30 interior 9 filterSEE ALL 64 PHOTOS Sharper handling: The CX-30's steering is amazingly sensitive. There's practically no numbness in the wheel; minute inputs change the direction you're moving. It provides a sense of connection and control, supported by suspension that deftly prevents body roll. Meanwhile, the Kona's tiller has a dead spot on-center, and it requires more commitment to change where the front wheels are pointing. Resultantly it doesn't feel as responsive as the Mazda. Superior style: Style is, admittedly, subjective. And we, admittedly, think the Kona looks kinda funky cool. But it's nowhere near as attractive as the CX-30. The Mazda's elegant flowing body panels are balanced by just enough sharp creases to give it a slightly aggressive presence. The CX-30 looks bold and distinctive without resorting to polarizing novelty like the Kona does. Get The Hyundai Kona For… 2020 Hyundai Kona side motion view 12020 Hyundai Kona side motion view 1 filterSEE ALL 64 PHOTOS Quicker acceleration: On paper, the Kona Ultimate's 175 hp and 195 lb-ft of torque doesn't seem so different from the CX-30's 186 hp and 186 lb-ft. From behind the wheel, though, the Hyundai feels far quicker. Its turbocharged 1.6-liter I-4 provides torque low in the rev range to give ample thrust. The quick-shifting seven-speed dual-clutch transmission helps with that. Although the CX-30 doesn't feel underpowered, its 2.5-liter four-cylinder engine's delivery is comparatively relaxed. Results from the test track don't lie: We measured our Kona Ultimate's 0-60 mph acceleration at 6.6 seconds, ahead of the all-wheel-drive CX-30's 7.8-second run. Lane keep assist: On freeway stretches, the Kona helps its driver with lane keep assist. Standard across the range, it feels like there's an extra hand on the wheel, maintaining a central position in the lane. Around sweeping bends, it's almost as if the car is steering for you. The Kona's lane keep assist takes some effort out of highway driving. It's standard on the CX-30, too, but Mazda's calibration is subtle to the point of being undetectable unless you drift out of the lane. Better off-road ability: Look, no one's pretending that either of these little crossovers is ready for rock crawling. But let's say your favorite hiking trail is at the end of a rutted gravel road, or you wake up some mornings to ice on the ground. When equipped with all-wheel drive, the Kona feels more confident off-pavement. Its suspension has decent articulation, and the all-wheel-drive lock button helps ensure confident traction. The CX-30 can be had with Off-Road Traction Assist mode, but simple dirt dips and undulations quickly overwhelm its composure. 2020 Hyundai Kona front three quarter view 12020 Hyundai Kona front three quarter view 1 filterSEE ALL 64 PHOTOS Improved visibility: You'll like looking at the CX-30's interior more than looking out of it. As nicely appointed as it is, outside visibility isn't good. A high beltline and sizable D-pillar combine to make it difficult to see what's going on around you, especially when looking over your shoulder to change lanes. The Kona's D-pillar isn't as bulky, and its larger window openings make it easier to monitor traffic around you. Hotter seats: On those frigid mornings, seat heaters are a car's most important asset. Fortunately the Kona's three-level butt warmers heat right up, and in their highest setting feel plenty toasty. Whatever your preference, they get hotter, faster, than the CX-30's. Whereas seat heaters are included on all but the base-level Kona, they only come on the two highest CX-30 trims. +++9
2020 Porsche Taycan Turbo S: Brace Yourself for Its MPGe, Range Numbers Uh, they're both pretty low 2020 Porsche Taycan Turbo S front three quarter in motion 112020 Porsche Taycan Turbo S front three quarter in motion 11 filterSEE ALL 36 PHOTOS Kelly LinWordsJan 15, 2020 Porsche has created a convincing Tesla fighter with the Taycan Turbo S, certainly in terms of performance. Delivering 751 horsepower in Overboost mode, or 617 hp in normal driving, this top-shelf Taycan is poised to be one of the quickest electric cars on the market. But its incredible performance will come at a price, if new EPA estimates are any indication. The Taycan Turbo S is rated at 68 MPGe, making it much less efficient than rivals. Worse yet, the EPA rates the powerful Porsche's range at 192 miles on a charge. Let's compare these numbers to the Tesla Model S Performance, which like the Taycan, is lightning quick. When shod with 21-inch wheels, this Tesla achieves 97 MPGe and boasts a range of 326 miles. These numbers go up to 104 MPGe and 348 miles with 19-inchers. The Taycan Turbo S is less efficient than even the Model X Performance SUV, which gets up to 90 MPGe and a range of 305 miles. The regular Taycan Turbo isn't much more efficient than the Turbo S, but at least it breaches the 200-mile range mark. What is MPGe? Learn about miles per gallon of gasoline-equivalent here. Now this is crazy: The EPA reports drastically different range numbers for the Taycan than AMCI Testing, a third-party company Porsche hired to conduct its own range evaluation. As we reported earlier, AMCI achieved 275 miles of real-world driving range in the Taycan Turbo, and it got 278 miles in the Taycan Turbo S. SPONSORED CONTENT Faster pre- and post- repair diagnostic scans w/ Bosch ADS. By Bosch Diagnostics Regardless of fuel economy and range, one thing is certain: The Taycan Turbo S is a blast to drive. Along with excellent power, the model boasts Porsche's signature handling capabilities. In our recent review, we said "launch control starts hit with a ferocity and an unrelenting pull only Model S and Model X owners understand." We can't wait to run a full track test on the Porsche to see how its numbers match up to the formidable Model S. +++9
BEST CAR CAMPING SPOTS IN COLORADO June 6, 2019 7:30 pm No Comments R Stratton Plan Ahead for the Colorado Car Camping this Summer! Summer will be here soon and many Colorado Campgrounds start taking reservations now for camping in May and through the season.  Campgrounds can fill up quickly, especially on the weekends, so check your calendar and set your dates. Many campgrounds have online reservations, so you can plan ahead. Others are first come, first serve and you will need to arrive early on a Friday to be able to find a campsite on the weekends. Don’t forget to make sure your car is ready for summer travel – have the oil changed and your vehicle inspected to be sure your vehicle is road ready!  A battery/charging system check and air conditioning system test will you stay cool and keep you on the road.  No one likes to be stranded when you and your family are excited to get to your destination! Below are our recommendations for great, close to Colorado Springs, car camping: Mueller State Park has over 5000 acres of land (only 40 miles away, 4 miles south of Divide), with 55 miles of trails for hiking, biking, hunting, hiking, and horseback riding.  Mueller has 132 campsites in the trees (17 open for winter camping too!).  This is an easy weekend get-away, and reservations are available online, so plan ahead! The Crags is just 3 miles south of Mueller State Park, access by turning left on Hwy. 62 (rough road).  The Crags is smaller, with just 17 tent and small trailer campsites.  Campsites are first-come/first-serve, so get there early for weekend camping.  Experienced hikers can hike to the top of Pikes Peak on the west slope (13.1 miles), or access other hiking trail loops that are shorter distances. Eleven Mile State Park (50 miles from Colorado Springs) is the place to go for lake and stream fishing, along with camping!  Eleven Mile Reservoir is over 5 miles long, and is known for having cutthroat, rainbow and brown trout, and northern pike.  Kokanee salmon can be found in the river flow, Dream Stream, on the north side of the reservoir.  More than 300 campsites are available for trailers and tent camping.  Numerous hiking and biking trails are also accessible. Great Sand Dunes National Park and Preserve is a little further, but worth the drive!  About 170 miles south/southwest of Colorado Springs, it is a fun destination.  Hike to the top of the tallest dunes in North America…then go sand-sledding down the dunes! There is camping available (88 sites) at Pinion Flats (National Park Service campground, just north of the Visitor Center).  Reservations (online) are recommended well in advance for the peak season (May-September), although there may be first-come, first serve sights available if not filled. There are also several private campgrounds available within 20-40 miles of the dunes. La Vista Campground is just under 90 miles south near Rye, CO and is a relaxing place in the Wet Mountains to camp, fish and hike.  The campground sits next to 40-acre Lake Isabel reservoir, which is regularly stocked by CO Parks and Wildlife.  Nearby St. Charles Creek is available for stream fishing also.  The campground is open May 18-Sept. 22 and reservations are available online.  While you are in the area, be sure to check out Bishop Castle just 7 miles to the north.  Jim Bishop has been building this castle for nearly 60 years, and he has put a lot of work and rebar into this amazing structure (possibly quantity over quality!! Although there are several campgrounds along the eastern edge of Turquoise Lake (about 2 ½ hours away, just outside Leadville), be sure and check out the May Queen campground on the western side of Turquoise Lake.  It is a little further to get to, but worth the drive.   There is easy access to boating, fishing and hiking.  The views of Holy Cross and Mount Massive Wilderness areas from the campground are wonderful, and you can enjoy hiking over 30,000 acres of the Mount Massive Wilderness area.  More ambitious and in-shape hikers may want to tackle the 14,421 ft. Mount Massive peak!  There is also the Timberline Lake trailhead (2-mile hike to the lake), which can be accessed ½ mile up the road.  Campground is open May 24th-Sept. 3rd. Cottonwood Lake Campground, west of Buena Vista off Cottonwood Pass Rd., is another gem waiting to be found (according to our Shop Foreman, Roy, who enjoys camping with his family!).  Just 100 miles west on 24 (and down a few access roads), this campground has 25 sites and is open May-October.  Tents and trailers are welcome, though no hook ups are available for water or electricity. Hand powered boats are allowed on the lake, and fishing is available in the lake or in the South Fork of Cottonwood Creek.   The Colorado Trail is nearby for hiking. What are your favorite camping spots in Colorado?  We listed campgrounds that are less than 2 ½ hours from Colorado Springs, but we know there are many others in Colorado that should not be missed.  Share your suggestions! Safe traveling and camping this summer from your friends at Honest Accurate Auto Service! +++9
WHAT TO DO IF YOUR CAR’S A/C STOPS WORKING May 30, 2019 1:33 am No Comments Austin Kane Here are tips for maintaining your vehicle’s air conditioning: Are you cold in the winter and hot in the summer? Well, chances are your air conditioning system is not working properly. And if it is, it may not be working to it’s maximum potential. Your air conditioning has a few important functions. Keeping you warm is one of them, keeping you cool and comfortable is another, and lastly, defrosting your windows so you can see and drive safely. Have you ever wondered how your air conditioning system works? To keep you warm in the winter, you will notice that you do not get warm until your car or truck is warm. That’s because there is a heat transfer from the warm liquid in the engine to the air, that then gets to you and keeps you cozy. This is accomplished by the heater core. Cars typically have one heater core, whereas large SUV’s and mini vans can have two heater cores. A heater core looks just like your radiator with all the little aluminum fins, only it is much smaller and sits in the dash of your car or truck. It’s not visible and it is difficult to access for repair. As hot coolant flows through the heater core, a fan pulls air across the hot fins and then the warm air is directed to you through a lot of duct work in your dash. Then, magically, you are warm! Now, it is important to keep up on your coolant flushes so that the old coolant does not corrode your heater core or cause it to clog, as this is a very expensive fix. One way to tell if your heater core is leaking is your carpet will be wet on the inside on either the driver or passenger side of the car or truck. Another is that your car may overheat if it gets low enough on coolant, causing catastrophic damage to the engine. It’s always a good idea to regularly flush your coolant, not just for the engine’s sake, but for all the rubber hoses and the aluminum heater core. Sometimes air pockets can form in the heater core causing you to lose heat in the cabin. This is an easier fix, but can be time intensive. The heat in your vehicle is really nice to have, especially here in Colorado Springs. With our temperatures in Colorado Springs going up and down constantly, along with snow and rain occurring whenever it wants, its good to have your A/C working even if its not hot, but most importantly when it is hot! An A/C system is comprised of a compressor driven by the serpentine belt, the condenser, expansion valve and evaporator. The compressor compresses the refrigerant in your vehicle, so that is can eventually expand and cool down. The condenser is what sits in front of your radiator and looks almost identical to your radiator, only smaller. The condenser’s job is to get rid of heat from the compressed refrigerant. The expansion valve is where the magic happens. As the compressed gas that is warm expands, it cools down and gets really cold, just like when you spray key board cleaner on a keyboard. You will notice the can gets cold. As the gas expands rapidly, it cools down and that’s how we are able to stay cold in the summer. The evaporator is inside the cabin of the car and that is where air is pulled through to become cold. Again, an evaporator looks like a miniature radiator and its also where moisture is pulled out of the air so that it is dry air. Just like moisture on a cold soda can forms, it’s the same for the evaporator. Moisture forms on the cold evaporator and drips down and out of a tube on the bottom of your car. Sometimes people may think they have a leak because it is so humid outside and there is a lot of water running out of the car with the air conditioning running. Lastly, the A/C system in your car has a lot of rubber O-rings, aluminum lines, seals and rubber hoses that can form leaks as the seals harden or damage occurs. It’s always good to have a leak test performed and find a leak before its too hot and unbearable in your car, so that we can do our best to keep those harmful gases from escaping into the atmosphere and keep them contained in our machines designed to handle refrigerant. Come see the A/C pros at Honest Accurate Auto Service and let us help you and your family stay nice and cool this summer! +++9
2018 Alfa Romeo Stelvio: raving beauty with faults James Raia | April 22, 2019 | Car Reviews Organizers of the Tour of Italy introduced the Stelvio Pass into the country’s most celebrated bike race 66 years ago. It rises above 9,000 feet and includes a few dozen hairpin turns on narrow roads. Alfa Romeo has branded its first compact sport utility vehicle with the same name. The Stelvio route in the Ortler Alps near the Swiss border has been canceled several times because of inclement weather. Many cyclists have successfully negotiated the rugged trek, others have failed because of mechanical failures in the nasty elements. The 2018 Alfa Romeo Stelvio has 505 horsepower. The 2018 Alfa Romeo Stelvio has 505 horsepower. As such, the 2018 Alfa Romeo Stelvio has a rugged legacy to follow. It’s powerful and confident like cycling’s best who ride top-end machines. But the all-wheel-drive luxury SUV also has failings. It’s like riders who have good intentions but suffer at the back of the pack when things go wrong quickly. Advertising Disclosure: TheWeeklyDriver.com is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com. Available in base, luxury-oriented Ti and high-performance Quadrifoglio trims, the Stelvio is the third vehicle in the Alfa Romeo lineup since the iconic Italian manufacturer returned to the United States in 2014. The Stelvio Quadrifoglio (four-leaf clover) is the best of the trio, boasting 505-horsepower and a Ferrari-derived twin-turbocharged 2.9-liter V6. It’s mated to an eight-speed automatic transmission. With its 0-60 miles per hour acceleration in 3.8 seconds, it’s the monolith of SUVs. The Stelvio’s precise steering and aggressive nature stand out in a high-priced segment that also includes the BMW X3, Infiniti QX70, Jaguar F-Pace and Porsche Macan. For SUV fanciers into performance and looks, the Stelvio may not have an equal. Its stylish exterior attracts attention. It has Brembo brakes, signature 20-inch, five-hole aluminum wheels with Pirelli summer tires, flared fenders and four-leaf clover badging. It has the carmaker’s signature Scudetto (little shield in Italian) grille. The Stelvio interior has its charms. The carbon fiber steering wheel is big and thin, with paddle shifters. The leather seating and red stitching and trim combination work well. The Stelvio blasts down the road with a hearty engine note and occupants advance quietly and in comfort. But a few features are amiss. The ignition button on the steering wheel is gimmicky. The air conditioning and heating vents are made of low-grade plastic. The windshield wiper switch is minuscule and hard to reach on the underside of the turn signal indicator arm. The rear window is small and the large head restraints block the view. Cargo space isn’t a strength, either, with many competitors offering larger, more efficiently designed areas. The Stelvio’s complicated shifter is confusing. The electronic knob requires pressing a release button to go from reverse to drive and a different button to engage the park mode. Still, the Stelvio’s shortcomings have been dismissed by performance-oriented enthusiasts for whom fast means quality. The new SUV has garnered its share of gushing accolades, including reviewers who labeled the vehicle as “the perfect SUV.” The standard equipped list and packages are impressive. Xenon headlights, roof rails, a power liftgate, keyless ignition and entry, dual-zone automatic climate control, ambient interior lighting, leather upholstery, 10-way power-adjustable front seats and adjustable drive settings start the healthy list. Blind-spot monitoring, rear cross-traffic alert and auto-dimming mirrors are solid features. Adaptive cruise control, forward collision warning and mitigation, lane departure warning and auto high beams are also all standard. The Convenience package adds an adjustable rail cargo system, 115-volt auxiliary power and cargo net, and is available with or without a hands-free liftgate. Harman Kardon provides the audio system, and there’s a dual-pane sunroof. But a perfect SUV, the Stelvio isn’t. Gas mileage averages are 17 miles per gallon in city driving, 23 miles per gallon in highway conditions. The manufacturer’s suggested retail price is $79,795 and $82,790 with its extras calculated. Alfa Romeo’s first SUV is beautiful and it carries its Italian heritage with a swagger. Whether it’s worthy of its name remains uncertain. +++9
Volkswagen Jetta Sportwagen TDI, 2010: The Weekly Driver Car Review James Raia | December 30, 2009 | Car Reviews, Hybrid/Diesel/Electric cars, Wagons/Pick-ups The 2010 Jetta Sportwagen is not as well known as the Toyota Prius. But the two vehicles have been compared. The Prius is the much talked about, industry-leading hybrid. The Jetta TDI is the increasingly popular and peppy diesel. The Prius made many of 2010 Best-of-the-Year lists and even topped some of the compilations. But the Jetta and its surprising value and impressive gas mileage ratings weren’t too far behind. In short, the Prius revolutionized the hybrid industry in the United States and the Jetta may well do the same for cleaning-burning diesel engines. A 2010 Volkswagen Sportwagen. A 2010 Volkswagen Jetta Sportwagen. Advertising Disclosure: TheWeeklyDriver.com is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com. The Weekly Driver Test Drive There’s no easy Northern California or San Francisco Bay Area connection to Mendocino. In either of the two major options to get to the picturesque coastal city, stretches of winding roads interrupt steady freeway driving. One route is more severe, but either journey has a reputation as unfriendly for car passengers. In other words, there’s a high rate of car sickness. But the routes, including the our recent two-day getaway from Sacramento along highways 101 and state route 128 were void of bouts of nausea but provided an ideal driving scenario to test the 2010 Volkswagen Jetta TDI diesel. Hilly, long winding roads, sharp turns, fog and bright sunlight were all part of the journey. We covered about 500 miles in two days, some open freeway, some gnarly, two-lane country roads, some city driving. If there’s a better way to test drive a vehicle, I unaware of it. And if there’s a better performing wagon and a better performing diesel, I’m unaware of it, too. Interior Here’s a surprise. The Jetta is a wagon, VW’s Tiguan is a compact SUV. The Jetta has 18 more cubic feet of cargo space with the seats up than the Tiguan. The newly style interior console and side panels are straight-forward, but nothing fancy. The console has the “dimpled” appearance finish, a better-lasting approach than crack-prompting soft finishes. There’s plenty of head and leg room for front and back-seat passengers and optional leatherette seats are stylish and complement the side paneling and carpet, like a nice pair of two-tone saddle shoes. Exterior A stylish wagon seems like an oxymoron. It’s not with the Jetta Sportwagen. Restyled for 2010 with a new front grill, Jetta SportWagen is a “station wagon” far removed from the box-like reputation of the wagon your grandfather or even father owned. It has round corners and a European look, with leanings more toward the sports car segment than crossover or SUV options. Performance For anyone still clinging to the notion that diesels “ping” their way along to their less-than-impressive acceleration to highway cruising speed, forget it. The Jetta SportWagen TDI diesel may use diesel fuel, but it’s difficult to otherwise distinguish it as a diesel. It can pull away from other vehicles in city and highway traffic and its 2.0-liter, 140-horsepower engine gives a larger impression. The diesel engine is audible when it starts, then settles into a quick rhythm. The electro-mechanical power steering, front-wheel drive, independent front and rear suspension, anti-lock braking system and electronic stabilization program all work in perfect harmony. The Jetta acts like it owns the road despite its understated appearance. +++9